 Few months after the 2023 polls, the Obidient Movement is set for a post-election conference to appraise the conduct of the general election and rejig its structure to be more stronger and coordinated for the task ahead. This was disclosed by Kennedy Iyere, a popular humanitarian activist, social entrepreneur and founder of the 40 Million Ballots Obidient Movement over the weekend in Lagos during an interaction with Journalists. Iyere said the ongoing efforts are championed by himself and other key stakeholders and Coordinators for major Conveners of the Obidient Movement. He said the conference, expected to hold in Enugu State for two days from July 29, had become necessary because of the existing urgency to restructure the Obidient Movement into a unified political family, as well as to re-organize and strengthen its overall leadership. “One of the biggest political miracles of the current political dispensation was the emergence of the political tsunami called the Obidient Movement. Read also: NAFDAC begins nationwide crackdown on illegal merchants of herbal medicines “Today, Nigerian youths and women have through the Obidient Movement, proven to the world that the power to restore political order and compel good governance belongs to them. “They shocked the ruling elites when they launched a ballot revolution which demystified the ruling class. They have been able to make it clear that elections in Nigeria will no longer be business as usual”, Iyere said. Iyere affirmed that the forthcoming Obidient Movement post-election revival conference was also initiated to help restructure and unify the Obidient Movement into Nigeria’s single largest political alliance. He said this goal is meant to be achieved by re-organizing its leadership, adding that the Obidient Movement will be re-energized during the proposed conference, to exist and function, as a strong pressure group and a democratic revolution, whose focus is to enforce active and adequate participation of youths and women in elections for the purpose of reshaping good political leadership. Iyere further stated that the proposed conference will provide a broad platform through which the Obidient Movement will be able to select and appoint credible leaders who will coordinate its activities across the 36 States of the federation and the federal capital territory. He stressed that hosting the proposed conference is the most critical political need of the moment, while confirming that delegates will attend the conference from across the six geopolitical zones and the diaspora community.