 Tezza Academy, a Nigerian-based IT academy founded in 2020, has commenced a three-month free residency training on IT skills to empower young Nigerians. According to the academy, the training program will not only ensure job creation but also play a pivotal role in making Nigeria a global exporter of human capital. The academy said it has initially admitted 20 young Nigerians, providing them with a comprehensive curriculum that covers cutting-edge technologies, industry best practices, and essential soft skills training. Jide Modele, partner at Tezza Academy emphasizing the academy’s approach said, “At Tezza Academy, our curriculum is designed to develop a robust IT professional through taught programs and hands-on field experience. “As part of our core ethos, the principles governing the consulting practice as a trusted advisor are taught, learned, and owned by all our trainees.” The program structure according to the academy enables trainees to cross-develop and establish firm bonds and alliances, ensuring that the team of professionals always reflects the best versions of themselves. Also, the academy said the program is committed to improving Nigeria’s high-end Global Value Chains (GVCs) with ambitions to rival highly populated nations like China and India, A PWC report titled ‘Nigerian Brain Exports: The Optimal Path to Growing the Nigerian Economy’ highlights brain export as the country’s most viable path to becoming a developed nation and actively participating in GVCs. Read also: 10 Nigerian companies spend N252bn on staff in one year According to the report, Nigeria has the potential to capture 17 percent of the global programming and software development jobs, resulting in an estimated $50 billion in earnings for Nigerian professionals. However, the academy stated that it is fully committed to the vision and believes that well-rounded IT skill development, collaboration with stakeholders, and government support are critical to achieving the ambitious goal. Roland Omoresemi, founder of Terra Academy said, “Part of the agenda is to equip these young Nigerians with the tools they need to excel in the global market and make them IT consultants while remaining rooted in their homeland.” The academy’s training approach according to the organisers involves introducing trainees to software testing and subsequently placing them in a Mentoring Program, where they can shadow industry experts for a period of two to three months. This hands-on experience prepares them to start their own practice as software testers. Modele, sharing the success stories of the academy’s first cohort said, “Every single one who went through that first class has actually been placed at a client site. All of them have been fully engaged, and all of them were engaged even before they graduated from the academy. So by way of success stories, all 20 participants of the first cohort were 100 percent placed at client sites, and their placement was secured even before they completed their training at the academy.” The partner added that the academy aims to develop not only software testing skills but also different tracks (test engineering, product development, product expertise, business analysis, project management, and customer experience) that cater to specialized areas of business. Meanwhile, the academy stated that with plans to roll out a new set of trainees, they are poised to address the challenges of unemployment and shape the future of IT professionals in Nigeria.