 The first Amazon CloudFront edge location has been launched in Lagos by Amazon Web Services, offering users what the company says will be more secure and dependable connectivity to the extensive AWS global network. According to a statement, this comes with support for essential AWS edge services like Amazon CloudFront, AWS Shield, and AWS Web Application Firewall (WAF). With the implementation of this edge location, customers in Nigeria can anticipate an enhancement of up to 30 percent in data delivery latency, resulting in faster and more responsive applications for end users. It is also expected to provide more secure access and defence against some forms of cyber-attacks including DDoS threats and bot attacks. “Our existing customers, from start-ups to established commercial and public sector organisations, will benefit from faster content delivery and enhanced security,” said Amrote Abdella, general manager, AWS Sub-Saharan Africa in a statement. “Companies looking to modernise their operations will find an easier on-ramp to the cloud through the new Amazon CloudFront edge location. Recognising Nigeria’s role as a leading technology hub in Africa, we continue to invest in the country to meet our customers’ growing needs and help them accelerate their digital transformations.” Read also: Visa Africa Fintech Accelerator program to help 40 startups scale The launch of local AWS infrastructure in Nigeria will help organisations in various industries, including education, media and entertainment, healthcare, financial services, and e-commerce, innovate faster. “We look forward to AWS extending its global network footprint into Nigeria with the new Amazon CloudFront edge location, which we expect will help us enable an enhanced entertainment experience for millions of our customers in the region.” said Idornigie Blessed, CEO at Ibaka Entertainment. “Our mission as a Nigerian video-on-demand platform for Nollywood movies, with over 15,000 hours of movie and TV content available for streaming is to make quality Nollywood content accessible to viewers wherever they may be, on whichever platform they chose to view it” AWS has the largest global infrastructure footprint of any provider. With the launch of the Amazon CloudFront edge location, Nigeria is now connected to the AWS global infrastructure network of more than 450 points of presence (POPs) and 13 regional edge caches in more than 90 cities across 50 countries, designed and built to deliver the most secure, reliable, and scalable cloud computing environment with the highest quality network performance.