 President Bola Tinubu on Wednesday met with the newly elected All Progressive Congress (APC) Governors in continuation of his consultations, ahead of the selection of his principal officers. The meeting, coming on the heels of the Senate approval of the first set of 20 Advisers on Tuesday, is also being attended by members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC. The President had earlier performed the swearing in of George Akume, as the 20th Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), at the Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa, Abuja  George Akume had before his current appointment as Secretary to the Government of the Federation, served as the Special Duties and Inter-governmental Affairs Minister, under President Muhammadu Buhari from 2019 to 2023.  The 70 years old former Governor of Benue state, had also served as a Senator representing Benue North West constituency George Akume graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in Sociology, from the University of Ibadan, in 1986, and also holds a Master’s degree in Labour Relations from the same University, in 1978. He contested and won the Benue Governorship election under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from May 1999 to May 2007, becoming the first elected Benue Governor to complete two terms of four years each. Akume was also elected under the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) as the Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria representing Benue North West senatorial district. He then became the Minority Leader of the Senate from June 2011 to June 2015. Following his tenure as governor, he was elected into the National Assembly as the Senator representing Benue North West Senatorial zone in 2007. Senator Akume was re-elected in 2011 and 2015, demonstrating the trust reposed in him by his constituents. During his term in the Senate, Akume served as Minority Leader from June 2011 to June 2015. Prior to his political career, Akume started work as a civil servant in the Benue State Civil Service in 1979 as a Land Officer. Read also: Ex-minister Lai Mohammed gets international lobbying job Over the years, he held various positions in both the State and Federal governments, retiring voluntarily as a Federal Permanent Secretary, Establishments and Management Services, in 1998. Speaking to reporters after his inauguration, Akume described his appointment as “an honour to be chosen to serve in this exalted position out of over 200 million Nigerians. “It is a challenge to serve in line with the oaths I have taken today. I assure Nigerians I will do my best and I will not disappoint the President. ”I will not disappoint this country; I will not disappoint my party. I believe Nigerians will find fulfillment in my responsibility as I discharge my duties.” Present at the ceremony were the Vice President Kashim Shettima Governor of Benue State, Hyacinth Alia, Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, the wife of the SGF, Regina Akume, some former governors, the leadership of the All Progressive Congress, family members and well-wishers. As the SGF, he will be running an integral engine room around which other Executive functions revolves. The office is amongst other several functions, charged with the responsibility of processing requests for duty tours and medical treatment of government officials, including the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), abroad, The office of the SGF had hitherto controlled as many as 14 federal government agencies, until August 21, 2019, when the Buhari administration created the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Social Development and Disaster Management, which has now reduced the number of agencies under control of SGF office to 12. This followed the removal of the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants, and Internally Displaced Persons, to join the newly created Ministry.
The SGF office evaluates the performance of the ministers and Permanent Secretary on behalf of Mr. President, as well as maintains mandate acceptance documents signed by ministers on an assumption of office. The office which also coordinates the Cabinet Secretariat, also serves as the Secretariat of the National Council of State, the Federal Executive Council and other Constitutional Councils which are chaired by the President or the Vice President. As a result, memos going to the Federal Executive Council ( FEC), are routed through the office of the SGF from where they are distributed to Ministers ahead of Cabinet meetings, as well as providing support services to Administrative Tribunals, Commissions and Panels of Enquiry. The office which also coordinates public safety matters, also coordinates and manages National Honours Awards, while also monitoring and coordinating the implementation of government policies and programmes in line with the programmes of the ruling government. 