 Do you know that you have all that it takes to feel confident, look radiant and attract your dream man? Let no one make you feel less or insecure. You’re worth more than every heartbreak that has happened or what is currently happening around you. Maybe you’re feeling over-aged, pressurised or intimidated. Let me share few secrets that can help you renew your mind, become more intentional and attract your dream relationship. 1. Practice positive thinking to counter every wrong belief system. Do you know that you’ve certain beliefs that have been anchored in your mind via emotional experiences from betrayal, childhood emotional neglect, heartbreak and sexual abuse? If you’ve had any weird experience while growing up, it may have registered the wrong kinds of thoughts like: “I’m not lucky”, “I’m not good enough”, “I’m not loved by people”, “Men don’t look my way”, and “Relationships don’t work”.
You can counter these thoughts by having positive affirmations that you say daily like: “I’m beautiful and attractive”.
“I’m loved by those who cherish me”.
“I’m special and I’ve great things to achieve”. 2. Practice gratitude to release abundance to the world. Practice the art of appreciating something about yourself daily. I was anchoring an event recently and I asked the participants to mention what they liked and admired in themselves. They struggled to find something, and this is common. Admire your beauty and appreciate it. I like my legs, dimples, black hair, nose, lips and eyes. Let me not mention it all. What do you appreciate about yourself? Appreciate and love it daily. Read also: Gbenga Adebija joins USAccelerator company The second phase of gratitude is to look out for the traits you want in your dream man and appreciate it in the people around you. 3. Take a baby step. Try something you have always been scared of, maybe a skill, a new language or a procrastinated goal. How interesting is your life? Why not try doing something that can interrupt your daily routine? You can read a book daily, learn to drive a car, learn a new language, learn a skill, join a volunteering team, or any other interest you have. Just make sure you add an exciting feature in your daily routine. 4. Do a makeover. Change one thing that is limiting you from feeling confident. At some point in my single years, I began to exercise more, and it made me feel trimmer and light. I also became more intentional about my looks. For you, it could be a change or difference in your make-up. You can exercise, eat right, be fashionable, smile more, greet first, stop being defensive, appreciate more, be more courteous and avoid condemning. You can even be more approachable with people because you can meet your dream partner through any random person. What have people complained more about you? That’s the first place to start the change. 5. Trust God more. Worrying doesn’t help you, it takes away chances from you. If you’ve been praying about a life partner, don’t stop praying but complement your prayer with trust in God, intentional actions and obedience to anything He prompts in your heart. Rest and trust while you focus on other important things. If you spend most of your time worrying a lot, then you can’t attract what you’ve been praying for. You need to believe that God is working in your favour and at the right timing, change will occur. If you haven’t been praying or trusting God, then you should start praying ahead concerning your dream partner. Pray about the attributes you want to see but most importantly, make sure you also begin to work around having the same attributes you are desiring for. How intentional will you be with these rituals? You can start with one ritual and keep upgrading with the other ritual till it becomes a part of your routine. If you are totally tired of attracting the same kind of men and want to know how to attract a high-quality man, book a session to help you understand your dating cycles and patterns better and upgrade it. Send me an email to hello@nikefolagbade.com