 In a world that is becoming more reliant on digital technologies, the way we handle transactions and payments has evolved rapidly. The shift from cash to digital payments has brought forth a new era of convenience and efficiency for end users and businesses. However, amidst this transformation, there is a growing realisation that simplifying payments through technology requires collaborative efforts among all relevant stakeholders on the continent. From mobile money to online payment platforms, Africa is witnessing rapid growth in the payments sector. Africans are embracing the convenience, accessibility, speed, and security offered by digital transactions. Technological advancements and digital innovation are fostering the development of local businesses, as well as cross-border trade and cooperation. As a result of this transformation, the payments industry has attracted billions of dollars of investment over the past 2 years. Yet it is only just scratching the surface as despite the exponential growth in digital payments, cash is still king in Africa, with 90% of transactions in sub-Saharan Africa currently handled entirely in cash. The transition to cashless economies represents a tremendous market opportunity but it also has its challenges. Some are related to policy and regulation, largely driven by market fragmentation and diverse frameworks and practices across the countries, others to infrastructure and cybersecurity. Read also: Boosting West Africa Energy Access through Wind Energy Technology Addressing these challenges requires collective action. Collaboration is essential, bringing together fintech companies, banks, governments, regulators, mobile network operators, and customers. Collaborative efforts enable the leveraging of strengths and resources from multiple stakeholders, bridging gaps, and promoting interoperability. Fintech companies can offer regulatory support to banks, while banks can help fintech companies tap into a broader range of customers and drive technological innovation. Tapping into Africa’s significant mobile penetration, a collaboration between fintech companies and telecommunication operators can leverage existing technological infrastructure and customer bases to reach a wider adoption of innovative payment services in remote and underserved areas. Partnerships with policymakers and regulators can facilitate the development of supportive regulatory frameworks, creating an environment that fosters sustainable ecosystem growth while prioritising customer interests. Collaboration among stakeholders also facilitates the exchange of knowledge, experiences, and best practices, fostering ongoing innovation. This collaboration can encompass various areas, including technology, cybersecurity, customer acquisition, and financial inclusion. Educational programs can be implemented to train individuals and businesses on securely and effectively adopting digital payment solutions. Ultimately by working together, stakeholders can identify and address barriers to access, such as limited connectivity, low financial literacy, and affordability. At Flutterwave, we recognize the power of strategic partnerships with local financial players and telecommunication companies. These partnerships complement our impact on the ecosystem. For instance, through collaborations with Airtel and MTN MoMo, Flutterwave provides millions of Africans with access to financial services. Moreover, our partnership with Fawry facilitates cash payments in Egypt, offering cash pick-up remittances for underserved communities. We believe that it’s still day one in Africa. As the ecosystem continues to expand, we advocate for a greater combination of efforts, expertise, and resources for the benefit of the African economy as a whole. Collaboration and strategic partnerships will create long-term value for all stakeholders, promote financial inclusion, and drive a safer, more robust, and sustainable ecosystem. Chinenye Agwu is Flutterwave’s VP Sales & Sector Head for PSPs, with over 13 years of experience, she has supported Flutterwave’s vision by building a strong network of merchants across key industry focus areas, positioning Flutterwave as the preferred payment technology partner in Africa and beyond.