 It is another season for heavy downpours and many can be irritated with how they feel in their wet shoes. As much as we love a good pair of rain boots, this kind of shoe may not fit all occasions. There’s so much more waterproof footwear to choose from when a rain storm is in the forecast. From fashion-forward sneakers and summery sandals to chic flats and vacation-ready espadrilles, there are so many silhouettes to choose from, and the best part is that you won’t have to worry about them falling apart when storm clouds roll in. Ahead, Popsugar has rounded up the most stylish shoes for rainy weather at all price points, including Birkenstock sandals, chic Chelsea boots, slip-on slides reminiscent of those from a high-end streetwear brand, and more. Waterproof slide sandals You can’t go wrong with a classic pair of waterproof slide sandals. They’re the definition of versatile, perfect for dressing up for a summer day on the town or down with comfy athleisure. The best part is that they’re really comfortable thanks to their famous anatomically shaped footbed that will keep your feet comfortable for hours on end. Train running sneakers Train running sneakers can be cool, multi-textured design to their grippy and all-direction lugs, which will keep you stable while navigating uneven terrain. Italeau Morgana waterproof sandal Italeau shoes are famous for their waterproof leather and long-lasting design, so it goes without saying that they make the list. It features two-tone pink and orange crisscross straps plus a cushioned-arch supporting footbed. Low-top sneakers When rain is in the forecast, a pair of the Dksuko Waterproof Low-Top Rain Shoes with Laces keep feet dry without sacrificing style. Their PVC construction can easily withstand rain and mud, but they don’t feel clunky like rain boots. Heeled ankle boot The heeled ankle boot has sheepskin-lined polyurethane insoles that feel like you’re wearing a pair of the brand’s slippers. Blondo Frey Waterproof Loafer Blondo — a Canadian heritage brand that’s been around since the ’80s — is well-known for its waterproof footwear, à la the Frey Waterproof Loafers. These suede shoes are equal parts sporty and chic and come in light blue (pictured here), tan, orange-red, and black. Reef water vista sandal The Reef Water Vista Sandals feature an espadrille-inspired texture and have a back strap that’s 100 percent adjustable with velcro straps. Amazon shoppers love how comfortable and cushiony they are. Tory Burch bubble jelly slide sandal This favourite 90s accessory has officially gotten a modern upgrade with the Tory Burch Bubble Jelly Slide Sandal. They come in a mix of bold brights and classic neutrals and feature the designer’s renowned logo front and centre. Merrell Hydro Moc waterproof slip-on The Merrell Hydro Moc Waterproof Slip-On stars a cutout design that allows for breathability and water drainage — and they’re a hit amongst Nordstrom shoppers. One reviewer who gave them five stars says: “I really love these lightweight, comfy shoes. Everyone thinks they are Yeezys, and they are a fraction of the price.” Hunter’s original tall rain boot The Hunter Original Tall Rain Boots ($160-$175) might be your perfect match if you live by the philosophy of investing in classic and timeless pieces. Unlike open-toe sandals, you can wear them in every season, be it a rainy summer day with denim shorts or a brisk snowy with wool socks.