 Linda Yaccarino, head of advertising at NBCUniversal, a US-based multinational mass media and entertainment corporation, has resumed office as the new CEO of Twitter. This was confirmed in a memo sent by the CEO to Twitter employees on Monday, where she stated her mission to turn Twitter into the world’s most accurate real-time source of information. BusinessDay earlier reported in May that Musk is in talks with Yaccarino to take over as the new CEO of the microblogging platform, after his announcement that he had found a new female leader for the social network and will transition into the role of chief technologist. Here are things to know about Yaccarino Education Yaccarino, 60, graduated from Penn State University where she studied liberal arts and telecommunications. Read also: Technology transfer and capacity building for renewable energy deployment in Nigeria Career She has been with NBCUniversal for more than a decade, where she has been an industry advocate for finding better ways to measure the effectiveness of advertising. Yaccarino was key in the launch of the company’s ad-supported Peacock streaming service as the head of Advertising sales. Reports showed that she had also served 19 years at Turner Entertainment and has been applauded for pushing the network’s ad sales operation into the digital future. According to her LinkedIn bio, “Yaccarino’s 2,000-member global team connects emerging and established brands to hundreds of millions of viewers, driving impact across every sector. “Since joining NBCU in 2011, her team has generated more than $100 billion in ad sales, expanded the company’s reach globally, forged groundbreaking commercial partnerships, launched the company’s ad-supported streaming service, and made massive investments in data and technology capabilities.” Family Yaccarino is a mother of two, married to Claude Peter Madrazo. The couple are both Italians but live in Sea Cliff, New York. Meanwhile, NDTV reported that Yaccarino interviewed Musk at an advertising conference in Miami two months ago, where she encouraged the audience to welcome Musk with applause and lauded his work ethic.