 The Lagos State chapter of the Labour Party (LP) has warned two suspended members, Arabambi Abayomi and Samuel Akingbade to stop parading themselves as party officials. This was stated in a statement to Journalists on Wednesday, signed by the party’s Publicity Secretary in Lagos, Olubunmi Odesanya. The LP said an investigation revealed that the two officials were moving around election petition tribunals, especially in Lagos State to derail the chances of the LP candidates and change the Labour Party legal representatives illegally supplanting them with their All Progressives Congress (APC) moles as the legal counsel for the labour party. The statement further stated that the party was in possession of documents where the two officials were illegally working against its candidates. The statement noted that Akingabde and Arabambi stand suspended from the party and therefore cannot and do not have any legal authority to represent the LP in any capacity whatsoever. According to the statement, “The attention of Labour Party Lagos State has been drawn to clandestine moves being made by the expelled former Acting Publicity Secretary of the Party Abayomi Arabambi and his ally the suspended former Legal Adviser, Samuel Oyelekan Akingbade. Read also: Ex-Edo governorship aspirant, Imansuangbon, resigns from PDP “They the duo have been going around the Tribunals handling Labour Party matters, especially where we won elections and the APC is challenging the victory of our Party to change the Labour Party legal representatives illegally and fraudulently supplanting them with their APC moles as the legal counsel for the labour party. “A clear evidence to buttress the above assertion is in the petition no: EPT/LAG/HR/16/2023 between Sanusi Olanrewaju Ismail Adedimeji and APC as petitioners (contesting Labour Party victory in Amuwo Odofin federal constituency) versus INEC, Labour Party and Wande George as respondents. “In this matter, Arabambi filed a motion at the Tribunal via an affidavit dated 5th June 2023 deposed to by himself at the Tribunal seeking to change Labour Party counsel from Tope Alabi Esquire to B. A. Ayeni Esq, who is unknown to the Party. “This was done by Arabambi based on the letter of engagement issued to B.A. Ayeni by Akingbade where he illegally signed as the Legal Adviser to the Party. Labour Party Lagos state is in possession of all the documents referenced above. “We want the whole world and indeed the Obident family to see how devilish and mean these characters and charlatans can descend to in a bid to satisfy their APC paymasters. “Furthermore, it is on record that Arabambi stand expelled from the party and as such is no longer a member of Labour Party” “We also have it on good authority that this mission by these conscienceless traitors is with the active connivance of some former members of the state working committee of the Party here in Lagos. The identities of these saboteurs within the Party will be made public soon”. “Labour Party Lagos State is by this putting all our elected members and by extension all the candidates whose cases are pending in various Tribunals to be vigilant and be watchful and be on the lookout for the activities of these enemies of Labour Party masquerading as members within and without”.