 With the election of National Assembly leadership, President Bola Tinubu on Tuesday charged the lawmakers to work with the executive arm, to delivery Democratic dividends to citizens. This is as the President also on Tuesday played hosts to former President Goodluck Jonathan at the Presidential Villa, Abuja The visit is the first by the former President since President Tinubu assumed office on the May 29, 2923. President Tinubu, while reacting to the peaceful conduct of election of the new leadership, stated that “ The election of Distinguished Senator Godswill Akpabio, CON and Rt. Honourable Tajudeen Abbas as the President of the Senate and Speaker of the House of Representatives for the 10th National Assembly is a good development. The President who noted that they “have been called upon and accepted the responsibility to diligently and faithfully serve our fatherland with the oath we took” added that “It is time to get on and move swiftly with the business of governance in the service of Nigeria “As your President, I am prepared to transparently work with the National Assembly. Nigerians expect distinguished Senators and Honourable members to make laws and carry out oversight duties that will enhance the performance of government to achieve successful outcomes including improving their quality of life. Read also: Agbakoba calls for Bulkachuwa’s arrest over controversial statement about judiciary “In the course of our work together, disagreements may occur. When we disagree it will not be out of malice, ill-will and quest to diminish the institution of National Assembly or any individual member. He noted that Nigerians expect so much from their elected representatives, added that “ They want us to lift their economic burden. They want us eliminate insecurity so our farmers in rural communities can go to their farms and produce the food we eat. “Our people look up to us to change the fortune of our country for good and remove all barriers that impede progress. All of these we can make happen with dedication and commitment. “We can only achieve all the good things we promised during our campaigns when we work together in harmony but with respect for our respective prerogatives and in the best interest of our country. “We cannot afford to waste this opportunity because Nigerians want us to make every day of the next four years count. Justifiably, our people want more from their government. “They truly deserve progressive good governance that will improve their standards of living. We must give them our best. He assured that he will remain a partner in progress with the lawmakers for peace, stability and prosperity of Nigeria.
“I count on the leadership of the 10th National Assembly and all members to work and walk with me on this governmental journey.
Once again, I send my best wishes.” He also congratulated them and also rejoice with the new Deputy Senate President Jibril Barau and House of Representatives Deputy Speaker Benjamin Kalu for their well-deserved victories. “Being elected by their peers as presiding officers and assuming the leadership of the National Assembly is a great honour that comes with huge responsibility. I trust that you will justify the confidence reposed in you by your members and many Nigerians. Tinubu, while wishing Abdulaziz Yari, Idris Wase and Aminu Jaji who enriched the process with their participation in the leadership election the best and a successful tenure in the 10th National Assembly, urged them to sustain the same level of enthusiasm they brought to the leadership contest in the discharge of their duties to their constituents and Nigeria.