 Vincent Olatunji, National Commissioner of the Nigeria Data Protection Bureau (NDPB) has been appointed to Forbes Technology Council for 2023. Forbes Technology Council is an invitation-only community for world-class CIOs, CTOs, and Technology Executives. Scott Gerber, Forbes Councils’ founder said they are really excited to welcome Olatunji to the Council. He added that their mission with Forbes Councils is “to bring together proven leaders from every industry, creating a curated, social capital-driven network that helps every member grow professionally and make an even greater impact on the business world.” “I am delighted to be counted worthy to join the Forbes Technology Council,” Olatunji said. “It is another confirmation of our modest effort to ensure that our country is recognised among the global leaders in Data Protection compliance.” Olatunji holds a doctorate degree in Geography and Planning from the University of Lagos. He is a Certified Public Private Partnership Specialist (IP3 Specialist) and a PECB Certified Data Protection Officer. With a remarkable track record of delivering impactful results, Olatunji has excelled in building strong relationships across sectors and achieving tangible outcomes. He has successfully led teams, conducted extensive research, developed effective policies, and implemented strategic initiatives at all levels of government in Nigeria. His expertise lies in driving human growth and process transformation, and he possesses exceptional skills in negotiation, networking, and public speaking. With over 30 years of experience in the public sector, Olatunji brings a wealth of knowledge and professionalism to the Forbes Technology Council. Read also: Innoson can produce 500 units of gas-powered vehicles – Chukwuma Olatunji joined the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) in 2002 and has worked in various departments thereby rising to the position of director in 2014 and acting director general in 2016. Prior to his appointment in February 2022 as the NDPB’s pioneer National Commissioner of NDPB, he worked as the Director of eGovernment Development and Regulations at NITDA where he led a formidable team to deliver various initiatives on Nigeria’s digital transformation. As Nigeria’s Data Protection Ombudsman, Olatunji’s relentless efforts and expertise have propelled him to the forefront in shaping policies and frameworks that align with international standards, bolstering Nigeria’s and Africa’s position in the global data protection landscape. He has attended numerous Capacity Building programs covering a range of topics, including Public Sector Management, Project Planning and Management, Digital Transformation, and Data Protection, among others. Olatunji is also a member of various expert committees and has represented Nigeria in numerous local and international engagements. He has received several awards from both public and private sector organizations including the GNC Digital Hall of Fame Award of Lifetime Recognition for his outstanding contributions to emerging technology for development initiatives in Africa in 2023. He was also recognised as one of the Top 50 Digital Economy Enablers in Nigeria by IT Edge News Africa in February 2023, and in April 2018, he was listed among the 100 Leading Telecom and ICT Personalities in Nigeria by the Association of Telecommunication Companies of Nigeria. In addition, he has received awards from the University of Lagos Alumni Association for Outstanding Commitment and from the Ekiti State University Alumni Association as an Eminent Personality. Furthermore, the Ekiti State University conferred upon him an honorary Doctor of Public Administration degree in June 2018.