 Zone, a regulated blockchain network that facilitates payments and digital currency acceptance, has been selected as part of the Endeavor network. The selection took place during the 37th Virtual International Selection Panel held from May 22-24, 2023. Obi Emetarom, Emeka Emetarom, and Wale Onawunmi, Zone’s founders were among the 11 high-impact entrepreneurs chosen from six companies across five markets. Obi Emetarom, Co-founder and CEO at Zone, said, “Joining the Endeavor network underscores our unwavering commitment to reshaping Africa’s payments landscape.” “The network’s pledge to support entrepreneurs resonated with us from our first encounter. As we continually strive to deliver reliable, frictionless, and universally interoperable payments to Financial Services Providers in Africa and beyond, Endeavor’s platform will significantly fuel our growth and extend our reach,“ he said. “We’re thrilled to be part of this prestigious global community. Entrepreneurship thrives on collaboration and shared learning, and Endeavor embodies this spirit,” Wale Onawunmi, Co-founder and CTO at Zone said. Read also: Haul247 raises $3m to drive innovation in Africa’s logistics industry “We look forward to leveraging this unique ecosystem of entrepreneurs, partners, and investors, driving our technical prowess to further levels of innovation and efficiency in the payment sector” he said. Emeka Emetarom, CEO at Qore, added: “It’s an honour to join the Endeavor network. A community like Endeavor is a significant boost on the journey to creating groundbreaking financial solutions. We’re confident that the global insights, mentorship, and support from Endeavor will tremendously enrich Qore. As we shape our company into a global leader in Banking as a Service, we equally look forward to contributing significantly to this vibrant community.“ The selection into the Endeavor network follows a rigorous multi-step process where candidates pitch their companies to international business leaders and investors from the Endeavor network. Unanimous votes from the panelists result in entrepreneurs becoming Endeavor Entrepreneurs, granting them access to comprehensive support services for scaling their businesses. “Zone is on its way to becoming the de facto for empowering, digitizing, and automating financial services in Africa,” said Ireayomide Oladunjoye, Endeavor Nigeria’s Managing Director. He added, “We’re thrilled to have Obi Emetarom, Emeka Emetarom, and Wale Onawunmi join the Endeavor Global network and lead Zone and their products into the next phase of high-impact growth.” As part of Endeavor’s network, the newly selected entrepreneurs will gain access to comprehensive, strategic, global support services, including introductions to local and international business mentors, investors, and volunteers from Fortune 500 consulting firms who will help them address key needs.