 Nigerian Afrobeats star Burna Boy has been on a roll lately, expanding his global audience and his musical achievements as he recently performed at the Champions League Kick-off Show by Pepsi days after performing at a sold-out 80,000-capacity London stadium. Alongside Brazilian pop sensation Anitta, Burna Boy performed songs like ‘Last Last’ and ‘It’s Plenty’ at the Atatürk Olympic Stadium, Istanbul Turkey as he continues to lead in the quest to conquer bigger music markets. But could we see him perform on bigger stages like the Super Bowl halftime show? During an interview with the official champions league pundits, the Grammy winner was repeatedly asked if he could see himself at the Super Bowl halftime show. From winning the 2021 Grammy for Best Global Music Album (with ‘Twice As Tall’) to headlining festivals like Coachella, Glastonbury, and Afro Nation, the self-proclaimed ‘African Giant’ has proven he can rock big stages and diverse crowds with his charismatic presence and genre-blending sound. As the NFL season kicks off and the next Super Bowl looms, the speculation about who will perform at the halftime show is already heated with Afrobeats stirring up the conversation. The Super Bowl Halftime show is one of the most-watched music shows in the world with the last show raking in 121.01 million views across all platforms making it the most-watched musical event of all time. Up until this year’s Halftime show which was headlined by Rihanna, Pepsi who was the official sponsor of the Champions League kick-off show had been the sponsor of the Super Bowl show since 2013. Apple Music replaced Pepsi as presenting partner in the 2023 Super Bowl halftime show which delivered $21.5 million in brand exposure for the tech company during the broadcast on Fox, according to recent studies. So, what are the chances of Burna Boy making history as the first African artist to perform at the Super Bowl halftime show, and how is he preparing for that possibility?  It’s worth noting that the Super Bowl halftime show is not just any gig, but a massive platform that reaches over 100 million viewers worldwide, with a budget of millions of dollars and a strict timeline of around 13 minutes. Therefore, the selection process is highly competitive and strategic, involving not only the NFL and its sponsors but also the performers’ reputation, appeal, availability, and creative vision. While the NFL and Pepsi, who sponsor the halftime show, have not officially confirmed any acts yet, Afrobeats artists have made notable achievements in recent years breaking global charts, certifications as well as stage performance records. Burna Boy who has branded himself as a world-stage performing artist has put himself in conversations to get him on a stage like the Halftime show, especially after a stellar performance at the Champions League finals.  Burna Boy has proven his ability to adapt his music to different contexts and audiences, as evidenced by his recent collaboration with Rema and Tems as they delivered a first-of-its-kind Afrobeats-themed performance at the National Basketball Association (NBA) Halftime show held at Vivint Arena in Salt Lake City, Utah back in February 2023. Read also: BUA’s new cement plant project promises 5m tonnes, price reduction However, being a Super Bowl halftime performer requires not only talent and hype but also preparation and collaboration. Some of the recent halftime shows have sparked controversies and critiques for various reasons, from the lack of diversity and inclusion to the lip-syncing and plot confusion. Therefore, Burna Boy and his team would need to craft a compelling and coherent performance as he has done in the past showcasing his strengths and brand.  To get a sense of how Burna Boy could approach the Super Bowl halftime show, let’s analyze some of his previous live performances and interviews. One of his trademarks is his energetic and charismatic stage presence, which combines dance, and singing, and often involves colourful outfits, props, backup singers, instrumentalists and visuals. He also likes to include African elements such as drumming, chanting, and traditional instruments like the talking drum or the kalimba in his music and performances, as a way to connect with his roots and showcase his cultural heritage. Burna, who is also an advocate for the empowerment and recognition of African artists and cultures could use the Super Bowl halftime show as a platform to raise awareness and inspire action on a global scale. By performing his socially conscious hits like ‘Monsters You Made’ or ‘Ye’ and songs from his recent album like ‘Last Last’, and ‘It’s Plenty’ he can share some messages or visuals that reflect his values, personal stories and vision.  Burna Boy has shown his collaborative spirit by working with artists from different genres and backgrounds, such as Stormzy, Coldplay, Sia, and Ed Sheeran. Therefore, he could surprise and delight the Super Bowl audience by inviting some special guests or mixing some recognizable covers or remixes into his set, as a way to create moments of unity and diversity. Overall, the possibility of Burna Boy performing at the Super Bowl halftime show is both exciting and challenging, as it would require him to bring his A-game and showcase his talent and uniqueness to a massive and diverse global audience.  However, if he and his team can craft a compelling and creative performance that reflects his style, values, and vision, and collaborate effectively with the NFL and Pepsi (if they get to sponsor the next Super Bowl show), he could make history and cement his legacy as a global superstar and a cultural ambassador. The odds are high, but the rewards are even higher.