 Reliance Infosystems, a Nigerian-based ICT firm with a focus on providing business-to-business digital transformation models and solutions, has won the Business Transformation Company of the Year award. The award was presented at the 14th Africa’s Beacon of ICT Merit and Leadership (ABoICT) Awards organised by the Nigeria Communication Week publication in Lagos. The tech firm was declared the winner in its category through a voting process that included business leaders, readers, as well as independent quality experts. Olayemi Popoola, managing director, Reliance Infosystems Group, speaking on the recognition said the award is a way of rewarding hard work and motivation to contribute more to the digital transformation of the economy. “At Reliance Infosystems, our vision is to reinvent the world through digital transformation. We believe in pushing boundaries, challenging the status quo, and reshaping industries with the help of innovative technology solutions. By partnering with us, you gain a dedicated team that will race alongside you, providing the necessary technologies, strategies, and support to ensure your success. Read also: NGX RegCo, ISSB, FRC to champion sustainability disclosures reporting among companies “At the core of our business philosophy lies a commitment to winning with our customers. Our success is measured by the progress we help our customers to achieve. To fuel organisations with the right technologies to reach new heights, we provide a tripod of cutting-edge solutions and services that deliver Business Transformation, Operational Excellence and Protection Assurance,” Popoola said. He added that the current business landscape is powered by technology and digital transformation offers numerous possibilities which can be harnessed with the right solutions, guidance, and support. Ken Nwogbo, Editor-In-Chief of the Nigeria Communication Week, in a letter announcing the achievement, said, “This is a testament to your talents, innovations, contributions and commitments to the growth of the ICT industry, and we are happy that Nigerians have recognised your hard work, sincerity and dedication towards the development of the ICT industry.”