 In what has been termed a major move to empower and promote the growth of Agric businesses and Micro Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Nigeria, fast-growing Nigerian lender, PremiumTrust Bank has entered into a strategic partnership with the Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL). Speaking at a courtesy visit paid by the executive management of NIRSAL to PremiumTrust Bank in Lagos recently, Emmanuel Emefienim the Bank’s Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, noted that the partnership signifies the bank’s unwavering dedication to supporting the growth and development of Agric businesses and SMEs as major players in the nation’s economy. In reaffirming the Bank’s commitment to the agricultural sector, Emefienim said “As a bank, we recognize that Agric is an area that requires a high level of specialization, which we have. We would ensure that we leverage this opportunity to enable transformation and unleash the potential of the sector as a major job creator and driver of economic growth.” Read also: Tinubu government must prioritise agriculture to end hunger Recognizing the pivotal role played by the agricultural sector in the nation’s economic landscape, PremiumTrust Bank aims to bolster the sector and create a dynamic ecosystem that nurtures and empowers small businesses and allows smallholder farmers to scale. Also speaking during the courtesy call, Abbas Masanawa MD/CEO, NIRSAL Plc, thanked PremiumTrust Bank for facilitating the partnership whilst emphasizing that the development was particularly significant not just to both organisations but to the Nigerian economy and MSMEs ecosystem. The bank’s foray into the Nigerian financial services sector has been characterized by several feats, making it the fastest growing bank in Nigeria. The recent change in status of PremiumTrust Bank, the preferred bank for a growing number of customers, from a regional institution to a nationally licensed bank in just 12 months since commencing operations stands unparalleled in the banking industry. The bank’s digital-first approach, customer-centric innovation, and speed of execution is solidifying its position as a trailblazer in the financial sector. By defying conventional boundaries and continuously surpassing expectations, PremiumTrust Bank is setting new standards, revolutionizing the way financial services are delivered and experienced.