 Funke Akindele, deputy governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State has said she doesn’t regret running for office. Akindele and her principal, Abdul-Azeez Adediran aka Jandor, were defeated by the incumbent governor and All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Babajide Sanwo-Olu in Saturday’s gubernatorial election. On her Instagram page on Monday, she said the elections might not have panned out in the way she hoped, but it was an honourable run, stressing that they fought a good fight that would be remembered. Akindele, thanked Lagosians for believing in her and supporting the decision to run for office. She, however said she would continue to speak for the masses, stressing that she was considering her next move. Read also: Emmanuel lauds INEC over peaceful polls, leads state in thanksgiving According to Akindele, “It has been an amazing and insightful experience on my journey to the ballot, and I must say, it was an absolute learning curve for me. A lot of things have been learned and unlearned. I sincerely do not regret taking this huge step of running for office. “I, therefore, want to thank the people of Lagos state for believing in me and supporting my decision to run for office. I saw every message of support online and offline, I heard of all the places where people supported me and challenged those who tried to discredit me. “I remember every warm welcome during our campaign tour and the faith you all showed in me. The elections might not have panned out in the way we hoped, but it was an honourable run for us. We fought a good fight indeed, as a matter of fact. “I also want to encourage all who mean well for the Nation and the state of Lagos not to give up. I understand that some of us are beginning to develop some sort of apathy toward the system, however, if we do not speak, we will never be heard. I’m glad that we could at least speak up. “Thank you once again Lagos, for showing your daughter support. As I consider my next moves in life, I will continue prioritizing the good of the people and the integrity of my position as an advocate for the people. Eko oni baje!”