 The UK-Nigeria Tech Hub, a pillar of the UK government’s broader Digital Access Program (DAP), has announced a collaboration with Google for Startups, Africa. As part of this collaboration, the two entities will award $3 million in Google Cloud credits to women founders in Nigeria. This support will subsidise cloud technology-related costs for startups, allowing them to focus on innovation, customer acquisition, and growth. Justina Oha, Country Director, UK-Nigeria Tech Hub, said, “We are thrilled to announce our collaboration with Google for Startups, which comes at a time when the world is celebrating International Women’s Day. Read Also: Google honours mothers with special doodle According to Oba, this partnership is a testament to our commitment to supporting women founders and helping them reach their full potential. Partnerships like this are one of the great ways that stakeholders can come together to advance Nigeria’s tech ecosystem at an accelerated pace. The joint effort by UK-Nigeria Tech Hub and Google for Startups Africa will help promote digital inclusion and jointly support technology businesses run by women founders. To commemorate International Women’s Day in March, the two organisations co-hosted an event in Lagos, today, bringing together women founders, investors, and ecosystem stakeholders. The event aims to help women founders understand the technology funding landscape and position themselves to secure funding for their startups. “We are excited to partner with the UK-Nigeria Tech Hub to empower women entrepreneurs in Nigeria. This collaboration is a unique opportunity to provide women founders with the support and resources they need to scale their businesses and contribute to the growth of Nigeria’s tech ecosystem, Folarin Aiyegbusi, Head of Startup Ecosystem Google Africa, speaking on the collaboration, said. “At Google for Startups, we are committed to supporting startups and entrepreneurs around the world, and we believe that empowering women founders is key to building a more diverse and inclusive tech industry,” Aiyegbusi said.