 The Labour Party is heading to court to challenge the outcome of the hotly contested presidential election that was marred by several challenges. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had on Wednesday declared Bola Tinubu of the ruling All Progressives Congress as the winner of Saturday’s presidential election. Several opposition parties, including the Labour Party and the Peoples Democratic Party, had on Tuesday called for the cancellation of the results of the poll and the resignation of the INEC chairman, demanding that a new election should be conducted. Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed, the vice-presidential candidate of the Labour Party, said a press conference on Wednesday in Abuja that they had begun preparations for the legal process, but did not provide details regarding when they would go to court. Baba-Ahmed alleged that the electoral umpire violated its own laws, and lamented “widespread technological problems and manipulation of results”. He, however, called for peace and urged their supporters – popularly called ‘Obidients’- and other Nigerians to remain calm but continue to demand that the right thing should be done. He said: “We are immensely grateful to the youth, ‘Obidients’ and all support groups, including Nigerians in diaspora for their sacrifices, conduct and commitment to a better Nigeria. “It is our position that the purported results did not meet the minimum criteria of a transparent, free and fair election.” Baba-Ahmed said: “In addition to the most condemnable attacks, violence, voter intimidation and suppression, the election was conducted in clear violation of agreed and promised INEC rules and guidelines, the Electoral Act 2002 as amended, and indeed the Nigerian Constitution. Read also: Peterside urges Labour, NNPP, PDP to focus on governorship poll “As evident, the institutions of the state and leaders that were supposed to ensure the sanctity of the election again, and as in the past, collaborated to subvert the will of the good people of Nigeria. “Please be assured of our determination to fight the injustice that has been perpetrated on Nigerians through all legal and peaceful means. While painful, we implore you all to please remain peaceful and calm as our fight on determination for a new Nigeria is just beginning. “We equally encourage you all to continue with the campaigns and vote massively for Labour Party in the forthcoming governorship and state House of Assembly elections on March 11, 2023. Our principal, His Excellency Mr. Peter Obi will in due course speak to you and indeed the nation.”