 The pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, on Monday, warned against any step that can jeopardise the handing over of power to elected officers on May 29, 2023. Afenifere, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Jare Ajayi, said the warning was prompted by reports of steps being taken that may be prejudicial to the swearing-in of winners of the just concluded elections on May 29. He said that such steps included the attempts to rubbish the outcome of the general election, especially the presidential election that took place on February 25, the resuscitation of the calls for the formation of an Interim Government and protests or rallies being conducted especially in Abuja and the United States of America against the result of the said election. Afenifere spokesman stated that the organization felt so concerned about the untoward development because of how it is gaining currency in the country and even outside the shores of the land. Read also: Agbakoba urges presidential election petition panel to deliver judgment before May 29 The Directorate of State Services (DSS) last week confirmed that moves were indeed on to scuttle the planned inauguration. Afenifere spokesman reminded those who are fanning embers of non-inauguration to be aware that the monster being courted would affect not only the Presidency to be headed by the winner of the election, Bola Tinubu. According to him,“The disruption will affect all other tiers of government as well, governors at the state level, the legislatures at the national and state levels and perhaps the local government areas. “There is therefore the need to exercise a lot of caution. The laws of the land created avenues to seek redress when we are aggrieved. We enjoin those who may not be satisfied with the outcome of the concluded elections to seek redress through the established channels and not through any other means. “It is also important to let members of the public realise that anything short of following due process, particularly in the swearing-in of winners of the just concluded elections, constitutes grave dangers for the country. This must not be accepted or encouraged at all because of its dire consequences.” He urged the Judiciary not to entertain cases that may be brought to derail the hard-earned civil rule and thus scuttle our democracy. “The successful conclusion of a general election this year has provided the country another opportunity to re-invent itself. We believe that the government that will be formed at the expiration of President Mohammadu Buhari administration on May 29 this year will open new (positive) vistas for the country. “The new government, a product of the process created by the Nigerian Constitution i.e. electoral process, elicits hope of a new lease because of the acrimonious air and near despondence in the the land. “As for those who are pushing for an Interim Government, this should not be allowed to happen first because it is alien to our law books and also because we have had an experience of it in the past. “Not only was the experience unpleasant, it was retrogressive. It is a path we should not tread again for any reason. Especially since there is no basis for it whatsoever”.