 As you engage with your spouse frequently, you will begin to notice the differences that you both share and for some people, this can become overwhelming and alarming. It’s okay to have great desires for your marriage but it can become a problem if you think you don’t need those dreams again because you have been having consistent conflict. There will be obstacles in your way but you need to keep at it and stay focused. No successful relationship happens without working at it, becoming a better version of yourself and seeking for feedback. Here are three mindsets you need to keep moving towards your marital goals this season: 1. I can do it mindset:
Are you always quick to think that it’s impossible for you to achieve certain things? Do you always assume that you can’t do it and that you are inadequate and unable to be the best for your partner? Remember that the goal is not for you to be the best but to be progressively better each day.
Stop thinking that you can’t do it. Yes, you can. There are certain things that only you can do. I live this verse as it reminds me of my capacity anytime. “I can do all things [which He has called me to do] through Him who strengthens and empowers me [to fulfill His purpose–I am self-sufficient in Christ’s sufficiency; I am ready for anything and equal to anything through Him who infuses me with inner strength and confident peace.]” -PHILIPPIANS‬ 4:13‬ (AMP‬.) 2. I have what it takes spirit. It’s very normal for you to assume that you don’t have the complete resources, tools or skills to improve your marriage. Read also: Does age and study gap affect graduate admission and scholarship abroad -Vantage Migration explains It’s not what you don’t have that limits you, it’s what you have but don’t know how to use it. – Steve Harris Every time you think you need to have it all together before you progress, you deny the creative power of God in you. God has put the right resources in your environment, your friends or relationships and you have to be sensitive enough to know when to look inward and see the solutions you need in yourself. It starts with the little kindness, care, gratitude and intentional actions that makes relationship better. An extension of having all that it takes is for you to open your mind to the counsel, resources and tools you need to make your marriage work now, but remember, even if you can’t afford that yet, you have the power to do some things differently. You can start speaking your partner’s love language or appreciating all that they do. This can make a difference today. 3. All things are possible mentality Do you mostly doubt that some things can’t just happen because they don’t agree with your present situation? Do you feel weighed down by the limitations, scarcity and barrier around you that you feel you can’t make that marital goal work? This can happen if you and your partner have been going through some difficult phases. If you can implement the first two mindsets and begin to take baby steps today, you will discover that there will be little changes in how things happen in your home except you’re married to someone with a narcissistic behaviour.
I challenge you today to think and speak what you want into manifestation. Evaluate your marriage now and ask yourself, how can I shift my mindset? What can I do differently? What would I start doing today?