 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Friday described President Muhammadu Buhari’s statement on the outcome of the 2023 general elections as “unfortunate, reckless, unpresidential conduct and subjudice comment.” Recall that President Buhari had while receiving the Progressive Governors Forum led by Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State, its chairman, on Thursday, noted that while the All Progressive Congress, (APC) was working hard to retain power in the recent elections, the combined opposition was a victim of over confidence- the main reason he believed they lost. According to the President, “They were already telling their foreign backers that they would defeat the APC. Our party blended confidence with caution, we worked hard and won. Now, their over confidence is creating more problems for the opposition than anyone else. They are finding it hard to convince those who supported them from outside why they are unable to beat us. “A combination of over confidence, complacency and bad tactical moves made them lose, plain and clear. This has created more problems in their camp. Why did they fail to remove us?” But reacting to the statement at an interactive forum with journalists in Abuja on Friday, Debo Ologunabga, national publicity secretary, PDP, noted that the President’s position contradicts global assessment of the February 25, 2023 Presidential Election, which has been adjudged across the Nation and globally “as the worst in the history of our country” Ologunabga said Buhari’s comment is already causing apprehension and capable of destroying the country’s corporate existence as a nation. “The Presidential Election was marred by brazen violation of the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended), the Electoral Act, 2022, INEC Regulations and Guidelines; manipulation of processes, alteration of genuine results from Polling Units, announcement of fabricated figures and climaxed by the vexatious declaration of the defeated candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu as winner. “The general despondency, resentment and anger across our country; the damning reports by election observers and the pervading international contempt against Nigeria since the declaration of the APC candidate as President-elect are ominous testaments that he does not have the mandate of majority of Nigerians derivable only from a credible electoral process,” Ologunabga said. He also noted that the comments coming on the heels of the commencement of hearing on the petitions filed against the election, was subjudice and capable of influencing the outcome of the ongoing judicial process. He declared that the PDP is already at the Tribunal with the prospects of reclaiming the mandate freely given to Atiku Abubakar, its presidential candidate, at the Presidential Election. “Nigerians and the International Community are therefore appalled, horrified and scandalized by the careless, unguarded and subjudice comment by President Buhari in which he attempted to justify the rigging of the February 25, 2023 Presidential election by the APC under his watch. “This statement reveals the utter disregard that General Buhari has for our Constitutional democracy, judiciary and the Will of the Nigerian people as expressed at the February 25, 2023 Presidential election. “It is, to say the least, reprehensible for Mr. President to posture and gloat over the trampling of the Will of Nigerian, blame the opposition for being overconfident and, according to him, for not being “tactical”, perhaps enough to outwit the violence, brutality, threats, suppression of voters, rigging and election manipulations by the APC and the government which he heads. “It is unpardonable that President Buhari, who swore to uphold the laws of our country and made several commitments to the world to ensure free, fair, credible and transparent election, is rather in approval of election rigging through manifest compromise of INEC system and wide-spread alteration, falsification and switching of election results in favour of his rejected party, the APC”. Read also: Buhari approves postponement of 2023 Census The PDP image maker stated that President Buhari is practically gloating over the undermining of democracy by INEC which refused to transmit directly results from the Polling Units to its Server/Website and announce same, in total violation of the express provisions of Section 64 Sub-section 4 (a) (b) of the Electoral Act, 2022. “More distressing is that after superintending over the rigging of the election, President Buhari, by his subjudice comments apparently seeks to bully, blackmail and influence the judiciary and the outcome of the petition pending before the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, so as to allow his Party, the APC and its candidate to “grab, snatch and run” with the people’s mandate”. He vowed that the PDP and its candidate, Atiku Abubakar, are working to reclaim the mandate given to the party which was hijacked by the APC. “The PDP and its candidate, Atiku Abubakar won the February 25, 2023 Presidential election as shown by the authentic results from the majority of Polling Units across the country. “The PDP did not lose the Presidential Election as claimed by President Buhari and we are not willing to surrender the mandate freely given to our Party by the people irrespective of the threats, bullying and manipulation by the APC-led administration. “Nigerians believed and expected President Buhari to leave a legacy of a free, fair and credible election based on his numerous undertakings and promises but he is leaving an ignoble, dishonorable and disgraceful legacy of enabling and superintending over the worst election conducted in the history of democracy in Nigeria. President Buhari, history will never be kind to you! “It is instructive to state that part of the electoral process is the adjudication by the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal which is considering petitions arising from the election. President Buhari, by his subjudice statement is clearly interfering in the electoral process ostensibly to influence the outcome and undermine the constitutionally laid down procedures for change of government. “Having clearly undermined democracy in Nigeria, the PDP calls on the International Community to accordingly impose sanctions including visa ban and travel restrictions on President Buhari and his family immediately he vacates office on May 29, 2023. “This demand for sanction is in line with President Buhari’s request on February 17, 2022 in Brussels, Belgium, wherein he called on the European Union (EU) to impose “weighty sanctions” on those engaged in “unconstitutional change of governments” as well as those influencing the “process and outcomes of elections”. He reminded President Buhari of his own words made at international outings where he called on the international community to sanction those working against democracy in Nigeria. “We also call for stronger support from the European Union in the condemnation and imposition of weighty sanctions on countries that engage in unconstitutional change of governments as well as manipulation of constitutions… “It is therefore imperative for our partnership to also focus on strengthening election processes in Africa and prevent interference to influence the process and outcomes of elections…” The PDP also demanded an open investigation into the roles played by President Buhari in the undermining of democracy in Nigeria in the 2019 and 2023 Presidential elections. “President Buhari needs to be advised to be circumspect and allow the judicial process to proceed without further undue interference and bullying by him”.