 Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) opportunities far outweigh the threats for news publishers, according to the latest report by the International News Media Association (INMA). According to the report, there are quick and immediate wins to be had by newsrooms by tapping into generative AI. Generative AI is a type of AI system capable of generating text, images, or other media in response to prompts. Generative AI systems use generative models such as large language models to produce data based on the training data set that was used to create them. Read also: Good Reports 2022 rates Nigeria’s X3M Ideas among 40 top global agencies The report titled “News Media At the Dawn of Generative AI” provides journalists and media professionals a foundation to evaluate the opportunities and threats emanating from the popular technology. “Generative AI offers media companies opportunities to find efficiencies, improve productivity, shift resources to high-value journalism, and create new user value propositions,” the report stated. Commenting on the report, Earl Wilkinson, CEO of INMA said the report aims to shorten the runway on the hottest topic in news media today. “This report will better ground us, spotlight the opportunities, contextualise the threats, and advance the flag of a subject that is morphing into an insights phase. It is a must-read for c-suite leaders, newsrooms, and product teams.” The CEO stated that ‘News Media At the Dawn of Generative AI’ represents INMA’s second foray in three months into the implications and early practical uses of the technology, adding that “AI Guide and ChatGPT Promptbook for News Marketers” was released in January. Meanwhile, the report provides insight on why AI is blossoming now in the public consciousness, what generative AI does well and today’s blind spots. It also explore the foundations for generative AI, Legislation, regulation, and the law, generative AI’s core issues for news publishers and how media can practically use generative AI now. INMA is a global community of market-leading news media companies reinventing how they engage audiences and grow revenue in a multi-platform environment.