 Adebola Williams, the Chairman of AW Network and Founder of RED | For Africa, has been confirmed as one of the speakers at the 2023 Forbes Under 30 Summit Africa. The event, which will be held in Botswana from 23-26 April 2023, will bring together some of the world’s most promising young entrepreneurs and game-changers to discuss entrepreneurial capitalism and the role of Africa in shaping the 21st century. The Summit will provide a platform for young leaders across various industries to connect, share ideas and explore opportunities for growth and development in the continent. The event will also feature cultural and social activities, giving attendees the opportunity to experience the sights and sounds of Botswana, while networking with like-minded individuals. Read also: Lagos lost 100 dollar millionaires in one year Adebola Williams who expressed his appreciation for being one of the speakers at the event said, “Indeed, the Summit offers a unique opportunity for young African entrepreneurs and innovators to learn, network, and collaborate towards building a better future for the continent and changing erroneous narratives about us as a people. I look forward to sharing my experience and insights on how storytelling can be used to drive change and impact in Africa.” Williams values Africa’s potential and uses his platform to amplify positive stories out of the continent. Through his book, African Power Girls, Williams has been able to champion gender advocacy efforts in Nigeria, Morocco, Rwanda, Botswana, and Liberia. His outreach in Liberia featured the UN Women Country Head, Comfort Lamptey, the country’s Vice President, Jewel Taylor and Claire Weah, First Lady of Liberia. In Botswana, he commemorated the International Day of the Girl Child with an outreach led by Botswana’s former minister and UN High Level Climate Change champion, Bogolo Joy Kenewendo. The 2023 Forbes Under 30 Summit Africa promises to be a landmark event that will inspire and empower the next generation of leaders in Africa.