 Flutterwave, an African payment technology company, has announced its partnership with SHiiP, Nigeria’s courier service. to improve deliveries for Flutterwave store SMEs and large-scale merchants across the African continent. With over 40,000 small-business entrepreneurs using the Flutterwave Store, the partnership with SHiiP will provide a seamless end-to-end e-commerce experience, whereby Flutterwave merchants will be able to select from a range of over 80 domestic and international couriers including the likes of DHL, FedEx, UPS, Flocargo, Shippo, and Flo Express for the transportation of goods, resulting in cheaper delivery rates. Onyedikachim Nwankwo, Flutterwave’s Head of Product Marketing, said “We are delighted to be partnering with SHiiP as we share the same goal to make the ecosystem of commerce simpler and more empowering for SMEs and large scale merchants in Africa.” Read also: ICT, 3 others in focus as FG moves to strengthen relationship with China “We believe the benefits of this integration to our customers will be immensely valuable to their customer satisfaction and bottomline, and we pride ourselves in continuing to provide merchants with innovative technological tools that are designed to help grow their business.” Nwankwo said. Nonetheless, the integration will provide SMEs and online shoppers with a smooth transaction checkout, and also enable merchants to successfully ship internationally. And will no longer be restricted by the headaches that occur with cross-border logistical services as the options for international shipping will be handled exclusively by SHiiP and their international couriers. Consequently, the empowerment this logistics integration will bring to SME owners and online shoppers will be endless. By providing a one stop shop e-commerce solution, the SHiiP integration to the Flutterwave store will provide SME owners within Nigeria the control to organise and track delivery couriers directly from their Flutterwave dashboard all without the hassles they were faced with before. Ridwan Rasheed, Co-founder, COO & head of products, SHiiP, added: “We are thrilled about our partnership with Flutterwave. It is a significant milestone for both companies and represents our commitment to driving innovation and enabling the growth of African businesses through seamless shipping options.” “Flutterwave merchants can now offer dependable and cost-effective shipping services to their customers without having to worry about the logistical issues of delivering items across the continent.” he said.