 Valentine is coming Where is your boyfriend? You are sitting at home You are so lonely I’m sure you’ve heard about this song. Every year as Valentine’s Day draws near, people create various posts about topics around men not ignoring women, expectations for gifts, self-love tips, overcoming Valentine’s Day pressure, and all other beautiful issues around Val’s day. Why? This is because even though the origins of Valentine’s Day are rooted in the story of Saint Valentine, a Roman priest who performed secret marriages in defiance of the authorities in the third century. Imprisoned in the home of a noble, he healed his captor’s blind daughter, causing the whole household to convert to Christianity— thereby sealing his fate. Before he was executed on February 14, he sent her a farewell message signed, “Your Valentine.” Back to you, dear readers. You mustn’t let the pressure associated with Valentine’s Day make you feel vulnerable to the point that you settle for less. Embrace your daily life, whether it’s Val or not. Read also: Valentine: Outfits you can wear to impress your date Whether you’re single or married, this article provides tips to make your “February 14” celebration extra special. Break your day into four sections and fit different activities into them. I am going to share the possible activities you can engage in. 1. Spend Valentine’s Day with yourself. Yes, spend that lover’s day with yourself. · The first thing will be to wake up and show gratitude for your life. Be grateful for how far you’ve come this year and all the amazing things that lie ahead in 2023. · Do some reflective meditations on your life. Ponder on these questions: How has my life been? How have I been able to regulate my emotions? How has my relationship/marriage been? Have I learnt to love myself better? Am I a codependent person? Am I enabling abuse in my relationship? · Take your time and just ask yourself amazing questions that can help you to become a better person. Go through a transformation process on the morning of Valentine’s Day so that you can give yourself the best on that day and avoid entering into any trap that can adversely affect you. 2. Spending D-day with a special person. I know there’s going to be that special person in your life that you respect and cherish. It can be a best friend, a mentor, a parent, or a sibling. If you need to send them a special gift package, go ahead and do that. The idea is to do something that will amaze both you and that special person. You may send them a poem or a love note via email. Just show some appreciation for all the things they’ve done for you so far. Make it feel special and exciting for them. 3. Spend D-day with your partner. If you are married or in a relationship, make it more fun and honorable. Go out and watch movies, take nice drinks and meals, and talk about your relationship and the patterns that you’ve noticed in it. Use the celebration as an opportunity to communicate your expectations, needs, and how you can be better in your relationship. While at that, avoid contentious issues. Don’t just have fun, make it a reflective moment for the both of you. If you’re not in a relationship, you can skip this part… and who knows? You could just go out with one of your best friends or stay home and enjoy yourself. 4. Spend Valentine’s Day with people who need your love. I intend to spend my Valentine’s Day by spending a lot of time with myself, with my husband, and then visiting the orphanage. It’s time to show love to people who need it this season. You could go out and look out for people who need your help. It could be in an orphanage, rehabilitation center, or even your church. Give cash, foodstuff, or anything you can afford to share with the people you love. Pray for them and spend time with them. It is an amazing way to celebrate Valentine’s Day even if you don’t have a partner or you’re unmarried. I believe that with these 4 tips, you’re going to have an exciting day with or without a partner. So, tell me, what’s your plan for Valentine’s Day? If you’d like to read a book on how to get the ring with ease and clarity, kindly visit this page to get a copy for yourself https://nikefolagbade.com/getthering