 Love is experienced and seen through the lens of knowledge. There is an awareness that comes with knowing you are loved. It gives you a spring in your step, it makes you exude a level of confidence that is unquestionable. Love has a language, and it is this language we use to communicate effectively especially to our children. One of the deepest emotional needs of a child is love. As a parent, it is listening to the hearts of your children that is the most important need. Every child has a love tank, some are full, half full and others are empty, this is all dependent on how much love is poured into their tanks. What makes one child feel loved is different from what makes the other child accept or how they interpret love. We have to understand the love languages of our children as this enables us relate with them easily. Children should be given heavy doses of their love language and also taught the other love languages. To create a balance, we should always bear in mind that we are raising adults and not children and with time, as they develop their language of love might change but they will have a well-balanced knowledge because they were taught, and they know how to receive and communicate with these languages. Read also: The power of love One of the ways to fill the love tank of our children is by apologising when we have wronged our children. No one is a perfect parent, you do not have to be a perfect parent to have healthy children, you can raise healthy children. Love rejoices over the truth, there is a joy that fills the heart of a child when they see you rejoice over their effort and not perfection. Children can always tell when you are truly happy for them. Love expressed through kindness produces patience, love helps us to grow patience with our children. The things they do can make us become impatient with them, but we should remember love never ends but our children cannot interpret that just yet, so when they sense that we are not patient with them, they feel we do not communicate love to them. Love speaks many languages and children interpret it differently. Show, teach and exemplify love to your children in the different ways you relate to your partners. Does your love have a frequency gauge? Does it fluctuate? Does your love bear all things? Love is seen in the way we communicate and act towards one another and this is also transferred to our children.