 Susan Pwajok, Nigerian actress and podcast host, has been named the latest addition to MTV Base’s Culture Squad. At only 20 years old, Susan has already made a name for herself in the entertainment industry, particularly through her role as “Blessing” in the popular TV series ‘The Johnsons. Susan’s appointment marks a significant milestone as she joins the ranks of the network’s Culture Squad champions, including Ilooise ‘Ilo’ Omohinmin, Ehiz Okoeguale, Folu Storms, Nenny B, Sammy Walsh, and some of the biggest names in African entertainment who have graced the channel’s screen as hosts. “I am excited to join MTV Base and the Paramount Africa Culture Squad family. Being a part of such an influential team that has deepened the widescale acceptance and relatability of some of Africa’s biggest entertainment and lifestyle brands is a dream come true for me. I hope to be able to use my platform to positively influence young people while giving a voice to stories that are proudly and authentically African,” Susan affirmed. MTV Base, the youth entertainment, lifestyle and music channel brand of Paramount Africa, has been a leading source of youth entertainment and pop culture for nearly two decades. The channel brand has become synonymous with African music, youth culture, and lifestyle trends, and Susan’s addition to the Culture Squad lineup promises to bring even more vibrancy to the platform. Read also: Royal Senchi Resort: Melting pot for tropical leisure Commenting on Susan’s announcement, Busola Komolafe, senior channels manager, Paramount Africa in Nigeria, said, “We are thrilled to welcome Susan to the Paramount family. She is a talented actress and host who has already made a significant impact in the entertainment industry. We believe that Susan’s addition to the team will enable us to connect with our audiences in even more profound ways.” In addition to her acting career, Susan hosts ‘Surviving Lagos’, a popular podcast featuring interviews with some of the most high-profile personalities in the Nigerian entertainment industry. She was also recently announced as part of the cast for the upcoming season of MTV Shuga Naija, where she will play the role of Nanya, the fraternal twin sister of the show’s protagonist, Moh. Susan’s appointment further highlights/underscores Paramount Africa’s commitment to creating opportunities for young African talent in the entertainment industry to thrive.