 With the rising breakdown of marriages and women losing their worth, identity and self-esteem in a toxic marriage, there is a need for women to find healing, support and the wisdom they need to rebuild their lives in partnership with God. In 2020, God gave me a mandate to teach and empower women to rise from pain and despair into God’s original design for them which will in turn impact their marriages as they host God’s presence. At Warriors Brides Network, we are raising: Women who will become emotionally whole and not desperately attached to their husbands. Women who will discover and walk in their purpose so as to live an impactful life beyond the walls of marriage. Women who will engage with their spouses with wisdom, understanding and power, hence putting an end to the crisis in their homes without many words. Read also: Men investing in menstrual health makes good business sense – Inegbedion Women who will grow their intimacy walk with God, not for the sake of changing their husbands but for truly becoming the brides of Christ. Thereby empowering them to listen for instructions, take wise steps in their homes and patiently partner with God for the victory, transformation and deliverance they seek. Women who will end generational patterns and traumas, which have plagued many generations before them, thereby becoming the repairers of the breach, and this would help them rebuild their foundations. WBN has been able to impact different women across 13 countries with the message of hope, healing and transformation. These women in turn take their lives back and become a rebranded version of themselves. We are organising a free tour around different states in Nigeria, Africa, and abroad, and we want to reach more women and mark different territories as we build an army for God who can subdue the darkness plaguing homes. We are starting with Lagos, Abuja and we would keep covering grounds like that. We held our first physical program in Lagos away from the online program to reach more women and this is becoming a movement. Some of the pictures from the event are below and the feedback has been transformational. The next event holds at Abuja on May 20th and we would like you to join us if you live there. Find out more here: www.warriorbridesnetwork.com/wbntour