 QShop, a software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform, has celebrated Nigerian entrepreneurs embracing the digital space to grow their business and contribute to the nation’s economy The Platform said it remains committed to providing small and medium-sized businesses with user-friendly, affordable e-commerce tools to build, structure, and scale their online presence, and aims to create an environment where Nigerian businesses can compete in the global market by offering innovative technology solutions. “As Workers’ Day approaches, it is essential to acknowledge the role that technology plays in empowering Nigerian businesses to succeed in the digital age. By offering a comprehensive suite of tools and features designed specifically for the needs of Nigerian entrepreneurs, QShop is playing a crucial role in supporting the growth and development of the country’s e-commerce sector. Nigerian businesses that leverage QShop’s innovative technology solutions can better serve their customers, optimise their operations, and compete on a global scale. As we celebrate Workers’ Day, let’s also celebrate the innovative platforms like QShop that empower Nigerian businesses to thrive and contribute to the country’s economic growth.” Qshop said. The e-commerce revolution has brought forth countless opportunities for businesses to expand their reach, improve efficiency, and better serve their customers. As Nigeria embraces this transformation, QShop outline it’s  range of features and benefits to help businesses harness the power of the digital world: Easy-to-use platform: The platform said it allows business owners to create and manage their online stores without needing advanced technical skills and offers a range of customisable templates, allowing businesses to create a unique and professional online presence that reflects their brand identity. Local and international payment solutions: According to QShop, the platform is tackling payment issues by providing ease of cross-border transactions. “One of the challenges faced by Nigerian businesses in the e-commerce space is the integration of payment solutions that cater to both local and international customers. QShop offers seamless integration with popular Nigerian payment gateways, as well as international payment methods, ensuring a frictionless shopping experience for customers and efficient transaction processing for businesses.” Mobile-first design: With the majority of internet users in Nigeria accessing the web through their mobile devices, QShop said it ensures that online stores are optimized for smartphones and tablets, providing a seamless browsing and shopping experience for customers. Inventory and order management: QShop’s stated that it’s robust inventory and order management features help businesses keep track of their stock levels, process orders efficiently, and minimise the risk of overselling. The platform said it  also offers automated notifications to keep businesses informed about low stock levels and new orders, ensuring they can respond promptly to customer demands. Personalized digital marketing campaigns: QShop supports Facebook Pixel integration, allowing businesses to create targeted and personalised digital marketing campaigns. This, according to the platform, helps businesses reach the right audience, engage with customers, and gain valuable insights into their online store’s performance, driving growth and success. Customer support:  The platform stated that it offers a range of customer support features, such as live chat and email support, to help businesses address customer queries and concerns promptly and effectively.