 No fewer than 100 members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), have officially defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Ondo State. According to Bode Obanla, who led other defectors from the four local government areas of Akoko South-West, Akoko South-East, Akoko North-West, and Akoko North-East in Ondo North Senatorial District, disclosed that the move became imperative in order to be in the progressive folds. Obanla said the decision was made in good faith and not due to any rancour within the party, but particularly to ensure that his followers get their fair share of governance. Obanla, who was the coordinator of the PDP Support Group (PSG) in the state, stressed that with his 15-year stint in the opposition, the strides of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu as well as the calibre of politicians representing the axis in the National Assembly cannot be overlooked. Speaking with journalists on Monday in Akure, the Ondo State capital, the PDP chieftain maintained that the administration of the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, will no doubt bring about the much-anticipated turnaround in the country. He said; “Contrary to insinuations, I and my team are not moving because we have been wronged by any of our leaders, the entire leadership, or shut out of the party. If anything, we held the ace. We were still able to decide, in conjunction with other stakeholders, on which side the PDP pendulum swung in the state. Read also: Tribunal strikes out petition against Ondo North senator-elect, Ipinsigba “I have come to the conclusion that I must now come to the progressive fold, which is currently in power at every strata of government if indeed I wish to contribute to the development of my people. I have been in the opposition here in the state for close to 15 years now. “However, we have carefully studied the antecedents of the progressives, and we equally watched the activities of a born progressive who has paid his dues as a progressive, Engr. Ade Adetimehin, the state chairman. It is clear that our ethical leanings and political philosophy align. “The Governor of our dear state, Arakurin Odunayo Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, “Mr Talk and Do,” whose strength of character, open-mindedness, courage, and bluntness continue to leave me in awe, “As an opposition politician then, I could not but commend the way “Aketi” handled the security threat that reared its ugly head in our state. His push for the creation of the Western Nigerien Security Network (Amotekun) and his ever-present and reverberating voice for the Yoruba race during the turbulent times all endeared him to me. “In my senatorial district, the two major political parties, APC and PDP, in the last general elections presented their best brains, business tycoons, well-exposed, educated, and lovers of their people, whose profundity confounds as senators of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Pastor Olajide Ipinsagba from Ikare Akoko and Akogun Adetokunbo Modupe from Owo (for whom I was the Director General of his campaign). “I must state here that Sen. Jide Ipinsagba is a silent achiever with a fine touch of godliness and a philanthropist. His demeanour always betrays a man in love with the masses and is ready to serve. “As if my federal constituency, Akoko North East and West, had made a date with grace and special favour, the APC also returned for the second term, Hon. Olubunmi Tunji Ojo, to the green chamber. The gods moulded him almost perfectly with the right medley of character and competency.”