 Agripalm, a division of Premium Edible Oil Products Limited has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) of ease of doing business with its host communities in Edo State. With the MoU, Agripalm will be able to operate in the affected communities without encumbrances. Agripalm Nigeria Limited is an agro-based industry located in Ikoha and Ugbogui communities in Ovia West Local Government Area of Edo State. The signing of the MoU was graced by elders and leaders of the two communities, management of the company, Kelvin Uwaibi, managing director, Edo State Investment Promotion Office (ESIPO), Fatai Afolabi, the chief mediator that facilitated the drafting of the MoU, among others. Speaking at the signing of the MoU, Fatai Afolabi, the managing consultant and chief officer of Foremost Development Services Limited, said the negotiation for the MoU took more than one year.
Fatai appealed to the management of the company and the host communities to strictly implement the contents of the MoU. Read also: Advocating practical agriculture in schools According to him, when Agripalm Ltd took over the erstwhile A & Hatman company, it had to develop the company in line with its own operational policies and standards, especially the international best practices and in line with the protocols of Round Table Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). Celestine Umolu Ojeifo, the community liaison manager of Agripalm, assured that the company will do its part to implement the terms of the MoU. The spokesperson for the communities, Monday Aighobahi, commended the management of the company, the leadership of the communities, and the mediator who helped to broker peace, resulting in the MoU. Kelvin Uwaibi, managing director, Edo State Investment Promotion Office (ESIPO) and Churchill Ebehitale Oboh, team lead, Edo State Oil Palm Programme (ESOPP), commended the company and the communities for the MoU, assuring that the state government will do everything to attract investors and make the state conducive for them to operate.