 TECNO has launched “Magic Skin” in Africa, one of the industry’s newest and most innovative materials in smartphone design. The company is the first to launch the product in the African market. It is a new material technology that promises to create phone backs that are skin-friendly, stylish, and easy to clean. The new material will be integrated into the body of TECNO’s phones and applied to CAMON, SPARK, and POP series, ensuring African consumers stay abreast of the global trends on smartphone design innovations. Stylish Design with Skin-friendly Touch Magic Skin boasts a sleek and stylish design with a delicate texture, a softer touch, and a better colour effect. The phone’s back covers vivid colours and vibrant patterns, making it chic. TECNO has meticulously tailored Magic Skin to suit the distinctive positioning of each product line, giving each product its unique style. According to the smartphone maker, the design results from extensive user research. TECNO designers surveyed thousands of African consumers to understand their aesthetic preferences and functional demands. The team then refined every aspect of the process, from perfecting the colour implementation to scrutinizing the quality of the patterns. Read also: Sudan: Humanitarian affairs ministry hails MTN for supporting returnees Moreover, Magic Skin has been engineered to reduce the weight and thickness of the back cover while maintaining durability and practicality. This creates a more seamless integration with the phone, resulting in a comfortable grip. A dense Molecular Structure Provides Stain Resistance The benefits of Magic Skin extend far beyond its aesthetic appeal. It is not only visually pleasing but also easy to clean. To achieve optimal performance, a variety of materials were tested and evaluated. The final launch of Magic Skin is a unique blend of polymers and micro-particles that create a very dense molecular structure. This dense molecular structure makes the material resistant to stains and spills, making it perfect for everyday use. Whether you spill coffee or wine on your phone case, Magic Skin can be effortlessly wiped clean without leaving any residual marks or stains. Furthermore, the advanced manufacturing process ensures that Magic Skin can withstand extreme conditions. The material is waterproof and resistant to abrasion and can maintain its stability in extreme temperatures ranging from -40°C to 70°C. In laboratory tests, Magic Skin has demonstrated its superiority in various aspects, such as resistance to denim fabric abrasion, prevention of lipstick and perfume stains, and protection against UV light exposure. TECNO again demonstrates its unwavering commitment to delivering stylish and innovative designs incorporating the latest technologies by introducing Magic Skin. This launch is just one of the many milestones on TECNO’s journey toward materials and designs innovation as it continues to push the boundaries and create new possibilities for the fu