 Peter Oluka, Editor of TechEconomy has joined the Nigeria Internet Registration Association (NiRA) Executive Board of Directors (EBoD). Oluka, who is an ICT Journalist was elected at NiRA’s 15th Annual General Meeting (AGM) and election held in Lagos on Friday at The Zone, Lagos Commenting on his election, Peter said, “I am deeply committed to the massive adoption of .ng buttressed by the fact that I have been a .NG (Dot NG) domain name Brand Ambassador since 2015! “Yes, I have leveraged different platforms and fora to publicise the Nigerian Domain Name (DNS) Industry, amongst other accomplishments, training, awards, and certifications. “I strongly believe there is a need for the injection of fresh ideas to further expand our identity in cyberspace, and I am grateful for this opportunity to serve.” Oluka has been a .ng Domain Name Brand Ambassador since 2015. He started his mainstream journalism in 2010 working with the Nigerian NewsDirect Newspaper. He Co-founded GrassRoots.ng, a news platform rooted in Speaking for the Global Citizen, and also co-founded Njalo.ng, an online marketplace for ‘Easy sell & Easy Buy’ or new and used products. Similarly, he has worked at the Nigeria CommunicationsWeek, as a senior reporter. He is among the pioneer Fellows of the MTN Nigeria Media Innovation Programme (MTN MIP-1) curated by the School of Media and Communications (SMC) Pan Atlantic University (PAU). Read also: ‘Acquisitions position Autochek for aggressive growth in Africa’s auto market’ Oluka also doubled as an Associate Member of the Institute of Information Management (IIM-Africa) and was awarded the Records and Information Management Best ICT Reporter of the Year by the Institute of Information Management-Africa (IIM-Africa) in 2014. He received a Special Recognition Award at the 2017 Nigeria Computer Society (NCS) National Information Technology Merit Awards (NITMA) for Excellence in IT reporting. He also won the Nigerian Women in Information Technology (NIWIIT) Best IT Editor of the Year 2018. Oluka is a certified Customer Relations Management Personnel by the Nesburg School of Business and Management (NESBG-Nigeria), Africa’s foremost Persuasion School of Business based in South Africa (2015). He obtained PGD in Mass Communications from NOUN in 2015 and an HND in Mass Communication from the Institute of Management and Technology, IMT, Enugu in 2008. Meanwhile, Adesola Akinsanya and Murtala Abdullahi emerged as the new President and the Vice President respectively. The new executives according to NiRA took over from Mohammed Rudman and Toba Obaniyi in that order. Other members elected into the NiRA Executive Board of Directors (EBoD) at the meeting are Ebenezer Dare of Hostlag Limited and Seun Kehinde of QServers Networks Limited. The registration of domain names is handled by NiRA-certified registrars, under its Registry–Registrar–Registrant model in operating and managing the top-level domain.