 Osita Izunaso, frontline aspirant for the position of Senate President, has urged the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to consider fairness, competency and experience in the selection of the senate president in the10th National Assembly. He added that his aspiration to lead the senate of the 10th National Assembly is in the best interest of the nation. In a statement by his media Adviser, Kehinde Olaosebikan, he urged leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC), to douse the tension generated by the controversial zoning formula already fouling the political atmosphere of the country by coming up with a zoning arrangement that would guarantee unity and national cohesion. He explained that what the country needed now was a brand new assembly chaired by a competent, capable and experienced man of proven integrity, without any blemish whatsoever. Izunaso said he was the highest ranking Senator from the South-South and South-East with a robust and outstanding legislative and National Assembly experience spanning from 1992 when he served as the Chief Press Secretary to the Speaker of House of Representatives to 1999 when he was appointed as the Chief Press Secretary to the President of the Senate. Izunaso, noted that the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, the outgoing President, Muhammadu Buhari and APC under the leadership of Adamu Abdulahi, should as a matter of importance come up with a new zoning arrangement that would not only produce the best among the senators and House of Representatives Members-elect as their presiding officers, but be seen by Nigerians and the world at large meeting the best practices in legislative norms and satisfying the political exigencies of the present Nigeria. The statement noted that the expectations of Nigeria and the entire world were high on the incoming administration and that no efforts should be spared by the present political leaders of the country in meeting the yearnings of the people. The journalist cum lawyer ranking senator-elect from Imo West Senatorial District, however, agreed with the position of the national working committee on the need for further and better consultations by all the necessary stakeholders of the party in reaching a workable zoning formula for the principal offices of the National Assembly. Read also: Reps speakership aspirants forge alliance with Betara as APC tips Abass/Kalu According to him, “As a consummate party man, I joined the nation’s best of eggheads like Babatunde Raji Fashola, and our erudite baba, Bisi Akande in the formation of the All Progressives Congress in 2014. After the birth of the party, I served meritoriously as the National Organizing Secretary of the party. “It would also interest you to know that during the five years of my tenure as the National Organizing Secretary of APC there was no single litigation over our congresses both for party primaries and party executives. I was fair, just, adroit and meticulous in all my activities. “Looking for a complete and loyal party man, I am the best. If competence as in what our father, the President-elect desires in his planned Government of National Competence is the criterion, I am not just the most competent, I am the most capable, creative and organized senator among the contestants. “If you want to go with the mood of the nation requiring a government of National Unity, I am an Igbo man from South-East, the most marginalized zone in Nigeria, I am the most qualified. “Equally, if you want to go with the Not Too Young Act, one of the greatest achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government, I am the youngest of all the aspirants, the face of the youths, representing the most agitated demography in the country today. “It is me. I am indeed the best and the next person for Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Emi Lokan!”.