 Airtel TV, a leading entertainment content streaming service, has announced the winners of its first Super Skit-Makers contest on May 3, 2023, at its headquarters at Ikoyi, Lagos, with prizes ranging from N250, 000 to N1,000,000. Qudus Shokunbi, a Computer Science graduate and software developer, emerged as the overall winner, while Mathias Saidu from Niger State and Akueme JohnPaul, emerged as the first and second runners up respectively. Launched in March 2023, the Airtel TV Super Skit-Makers competition is an initiative by the fledgling platform, to recognize and reward the country’s outstanding talent in the emerging online skits genre. An evidently thrilled crowd at the prize presentation ceremony applauded as the star winner, Qudus Shokunbi, received the unprecedented N1,000,000 cash reward and a scholarship to Del-York Creative Academy, a top film school in Lagos. The star award was followed by additional prizes for other winners and contestants. Second and third-place winners were presented with cash prizes of N500,000, and N250,000, respectively, alongside film school scholarships to Del-York Creative Academy. For their notable participation, makers of the top 10 most viewed videos that were entered into the competition also received branded Airtel TV merchandise. Read also: Purpose, Culture and Technology will boost our performance – says FCMB Group CEO, Ladi Balogun Speaking at the event, Femi Oshinlaja, chief commercial officer, of Airtel Nigeria, said, “Airtel Nigeria is excited to host the Skit-Makers and celebrate the incredible contributions of young skit makers to the comedy genre in particular, and Nigerian entertainment in general. We believe in supporting and promoting creativity in Nigeria, and with Airtel TV, we are thrilled to recognize and reward the impact of these talented creators.” He added: “We hope that the prizes will not only serve as a form of recognition for the winners but also as a source of inspiration to other aspiring skit makers.” Sharing a similar sentiment, Shokunbi expressed his gratitude to Airtel TV for boosting the art form. “I am happy that Airtel TV organized this competition and offered this large prize. Their support will go a long way to encourage more youths to produce more creative skits,” he said. 