 A Chinese report has alleged that the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) masterminded a great number of hacker attacks and “color revolutions” in the post-Soviet space and other regions of the globe. China’s National Computer Virus Emergency Response Centre and Chinese internet Security Company 360 made the report on Thursday. The report said “for many years, the CIA has been secretly organising “peaceful change” and “color revolutions”, as well as carrying out espionage activities and stealing information.’’ The authors of the report believe that all revolutions recognised as “color revolutions” by international experts and organisations, as well as many other events were orchestrated by the U.S. special services. Read also: Open Banking will democratise Nigerian banking customers’ data – Dozie The revolutions include: Velvet Revolution in Czechoslovakia in 1989, Rose Revolution in Georgia in 2003, Orange Revolution in Ukraine from 2004-2005, Tulip Revolution in Kyrgyzstan in 2005, Arab Spring of 2010s, Ukrainian Euromaidan from 2013-2014, and Sunflower Movement in Taiwan in 2014. Besides, the paper argues that U.S. secret agencies were trying to stage “color revolutions” in Belarus, Azerbaijan, Lebanon, Myanmar, Iran and other states. “According to statistics, over the past few decades, the CIA has overthrown or attempted to overthrow legitimate governments in more than 50 countries, causing unrest,” the report read. Additionally, the report said that the APT or APT-C-39 hacker organisation, which was exposed by the 360 company in 2020, used for its cyberattacks tools similar to those featured in the Vault 7 papers published by WikiLeaks and listed there as CIA hacking tools. According to the report, the main targets of the organisation are important information infrastructures of various countries, aerospace, research institutes, oil companies, Internet companies and government agencies. Its activities can be traced back to 2011, and attacks continue to this day.