 Across global fashion capitals of the world; from Paris, Milan, New York and Spain, young Nigerian creatives are flying their country’s flag with pride. They are among some of the most successful African models of this decade. Particularly, Mayowa Nicholas easily comes to mind. The home-groomed model, who ranks in the Top 50 Models & Money List, is the first Nigerian to be the face of Calvin Klein, Dolce&Gabana, and Saint Laurent. Following Nicolas is Nyagua Ruea, who ranks in the Hot List and also received nominations for the model of the year. Other successful Nigerian international models include; Godwin Okereuku, who models for Dior; Ireoluwa Ajayi, who models for Gucci beauty; Davidson Obennebo, Nneoma Anosike, Chika Emmanuella, Jeffery Obed, Tobi Momoh, Chisom Okeke, Olaniyan Olamijuwon, Nora Omeire, Peter and Paul Ohunyon and David Folarin, all owe their successful careers to Beth Model Management, a modelling agency that has since become the largest and most successful in Africa. Since the beginning of 2023, the modelling agency has secured major campaigns for its models. The campaigns have seen these Nigerian talents gracing global platforms and exciting the audience. Credit goes to Elizabeth Isiorho, who founded Beth Model Management in 2004, with a focus on raising Nigerian models for global scenes, upskilling, exposing and empowering them. Read also: Nollywood’s Chika Ike ranks among best dressed at Cannes Film Festival in France Today and with modelling campaigns for major global fashion brands, the modelling agency has grown to become the largest and most successful in Africa. The feat is possible today because Elizabeth, the founder, recognized a gap in the African modelling industry and took a bold step by creating Beth to fill that void. Living up to the expectations of the fashion world, Beth Models has established partnerships with modelling agencies in major fashion capitals such as New York, London, Paris, Milan, and Spain, while still being dedicated to discovering new talents and transforming them into successful stars. The agency prides itself in managing several successful talents locally and internationally. It segments its business across women and men, talent, and influencers, with a primary focus on promoting local talents in collaboration with local and international brands across the fashion and creative industries. Considering the efforts of Beth, Beth Model Management has earned a reputation as the most reputable, successful, and respected modelling agency in Africa. However, the agency aspires to be among the world’s top modelling agencies, joining the ranks of the greatest in the industry