 The Lagos State chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC), has assured Lagosians that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu would do alot more for them in his second term. Lagos APC gave the assurance in a statement issued on Saturday by its State Publicity Secretary, Seye Oladejo. The party explained that it was in celebration mood ahead of the second term inauguration. Lagos APC said that Sanwo-Olu earned his second term ticket on the back of compelling landmark achievements, passionate commitment to the yearnings of teeming Lagosians and the fulfillment of his social contract with the electorates. ”His much anticipated re-election was a referendum on his performance which endeared him to all and sundry across social-economic status and cultural leanings. Read also: Inauguration lecture: Adesina urges Tinubu to tackle Power, infrastructures, others ”Despite the unusual and unexpected challenge by the Covid-19 pandemic which earned him pundit for literally saving the nation, he was able to fulfill his promise of inclusivity and monumental developments across the 20 Local Government Councils and 37 Local Council Department Areas. ”The all encompassing THEMES mantra became the compass and driving force for the state government”, said Lagos APC. Itemising Sanwo-Olu’s achievements, Lagos APC said the achievements in public transportation in rail, water, road brought great relief for commuters. ”The health sector, education, environmental services, women, youth and social development, entertainment and tourism and security of lives and property became a reference point for responsive and responsible governance. ”The fulfillment of his promise to complete all inherited uncompleted projects endeared him to the people as a man of his words. “As the ruling party, we are proud of Governor Babajide Sanwo-olu’s achievements and have implicit confidence that he will do a lot more during his second term that holds lofty promises for all Lagosians”. The party added ” As we eagerly wait to usher in a Greater Lagos, we wish to invite all and sundry, across party lines, socio-economic status, ethnic and religious persuasions, youths, women, market men and women etc to join us as we celebrate democracy with the inauguration of Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-olu for his second term as the Governor of Lagos State on 29th May at the Tafawa Balewa Square. ”It promises to be carnival like with the famous Lagos cultural heritage and hospitality on display as we celebrate democracy and enthralling leadership”.