 South African Airways, the flag carrier airline of South Africa, has partnered the Africa Youth in Tourism Innovation Summit 2023 (www.youthtourismsummit.com). The partnership aims to offer discounted airfares to all delegates travelling to Namibia from various destinations serviced by SAA to the Summit. The Summit is scheduled for May 31-June 2, 2023 and will be held in the coastal city of Swakopmund and delegates may choose to fly to Windhoek and join ground transfers provided by the event organising partners at no extra cost. Building up to the success of the Africa Youth in Tourism Innovation Summit 2022, this year’s Summit is set to host 350 physical delegates and over 1500 online participants from across the world. As the world meets in Namibia, various activities, including the Dolphin cruise, sunset cruise, cultural tours and the Doon 7 experience are among the activities the delegates can indulge in. The Ministry of Tourism, Environment, Forestry and Tourism Namibia has availed exhibition space for tourism stakeholders and delegates to showcase their products and services. Other key sessions are B2B speed marketing session, MICE and digital marketing masterclass and as well as the presentation of Namibia’s investment opportunities and leisure tours. Among the invited speakers are: Gonaya Monei E. Sethora – Women and Youth in Trade Expert|Directorate of Institutional Matters and Programme Coordination (DIMPC), AfCFTA Secretariat, Prudence Sebahizi, director, Directorate of Institutional Matters and programmes coordination (DIMPC), AfCFTA Secretariat,  Urs Aebischer, founder of DISEO Switzerland, Kele Tlouane – DDG, TEDET, Limpopo, South Africa, Ian Putter – Head Blockchain Centre of Excellence, Regional Director Blockchain Research Institute Africa and Board member of Hedera Hashgraph, Switzerland, Isobel Green – Head of Department: Hospitality & Tourism, Namibia University of Science & Technology, Namibia, Alka Bhatia – UNDP Resident Representative to the Namibia, Shabnam Vadachia – Head of Sales Market, Fly SAA, South Africa, Ibukunoluwa Salau – Founder and CEO, Direx, Nigeria, Cornelius Ugwunwa – CEO, Kardinal Technologies Inc, Nigeria, Lehong Ntshabo – Managing Director, Makeeda HTW, South Africa, Mikul Shah – Co-Founder & CEO, Purple Elephant Ventures, Kenya. Announcement of the top 5 finalists of the Africa Youth in Tourism Innovation Challenge 2023 will be made on June 2, 2023. This will be preceded by a boot camp for the finalists and their mentors. Registrations for both physical and virtual participants are ongoing. Interested persons may visit the website. The Africa Youth in Tourism Innovation Summit 2023 is organised by Africa Tourism Partners (ATP) – www.africatourismpartners.com, a UNWTO-affiliated award-winning Pan-African tourism development and strategic destination marketing advisory firm.  The firm specializes in tourism and MICE strategy formulation, investment facilitation and promotion, research, master planning and destination market development and capacity building across Africa’s travel, tourism, hospitality, aviation and golf sub-industries. Its clients and partners include but are not limited to UNWTO, World Bank, Mastercard Foundation, NEPAD, AfCFTA, South African Tourism, Ghana Tourism Authority, Tourism KwaZulu- Natal, Rwanda Development Board, Rwanda Convention Bureau, Rwanda Chamber of Commerce, SAACI, RwandAir, SAA, Ethiopia Airlines, Tanzania Tourism Board, Kenya Tourism Board, Uganda Tourism Board, Gauteng Tourism Authority, Zimbabwe Tourism Authority, Tourism Business Council of South Africa, Nigeria and more.