 Exhibitors from more than 20 countries have confirmed their participation at next week’s Africa’s Travel Indaba in Durban, South Africa. The twenty-one African countries are comprised of national tourism boards, ministries of tourism, tourism associations and industry stakeholders. The countries are Angola, Botswana, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Eswatini, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritania, Mozambique, Namibia, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda, Mauritius, Ivory Coast, South Africa, Seychelles, Zambia and Zimbabwe. These stand bookings demonstrate how many countries see the travel show as an important travel marketplace in their recovery roadmap. Slated for of May 8-11, 2023, at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre, Africa’s Travel Indaba will offer veritable platform for African destinations to consolidate the gains made in the recovery efforts, while using the opportunity to shape the continent’s tomorrow, through connection today”. The three-day trade show will be preceded by a dedicated Business Opportunity Networking Day (BONDay), which seeks to create a platform for thought leadership, knowledge sharing and obtaining the latest in global trends and local insights. The event will also host tourism ministers from across the continent, industry experts, keynote speakers, among others. Alongside the face-to-face networking opportunities, Africa’s Travel Indaba will feature sessions with insights and research about how the sector can recover from the pandemic and reflect the event’s theme of ‘Unlimited Africa’. Read also: 5th Africa Youth in Tourism Innovation Summit 2023 moves to Swakopmund from May 31st-June 2nd This year’s event is also expected to see the return of some iconic events, while also introducing new additions. Africa’s Travel Indaba will once again host SMMEs from various provinces in South Africa. They will showcase their products and experiences to the thousands of delegates that will attend this year’s edition. Adding to this variety of product offerings will be the more established businesses from across the African continent who will be exhibiting throughout the three-day show. Commenting on the KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) state of readiness to host Africa’s Travel Indaba 2023, Nhlanhla Khumalo, Acting CEO of Tourism KZN, said that “KwaZulu-Natal has more than 20 years experience in hosting Africa’s Travel Indaba together with a number of world-class events and we are confident that this year will be no different. The province has adequate accommodation establishments within a reasonable travel distance to the Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre. With a number of airlines that fly directly to King Shaka International Airport (KSIA), domestic and international delegates should travel with ease to the province.” The city is projecting an injection of over R130 million to its GDP and the creation of over 250 job opportunities. “Our projections indicate that Africa’s Travel Indaba for 2023 will contribute over R130 million to the city’s GDP and create over 250 job opportunities. We anticipate a hotel occupancy rate of 90 percent, which will be a major boost for the hospitality sector,” said Councillor Phili Mbatha-Ndlovu; EThekwini Deputy Chairperson for Economic Development and Planning Committee. She added that the city is ready to roll out a red carpet for all the delegates attending Indaba. The 2022 edition of Africa’s Travel Indaba attracted more than 5,500 delegates from all over the world, with 634 exhibiting businesses from 19 countries on the continent, showcasing an array of travel and tourism offerings to regional and international buyers.