 Radisson Hotel Group has announced the appointment of Yehia El-Mansoury as general manager, of Radisson Hotel Lagos Ikeja. The new appointment took effect on April 01, 2023. Yehia is a leading luxury hotelier, with a wealth of experience spanning 20 years in the industry and specialising in the African and Middle East markets. His flair for hospitality began with roles as night manager and assistant front office manager in 2003 and 2004 at the Sofitel Hotel in Hurghada, Egypt. Inspired by work and travel, Yehia’s ascent through roles in corporate strategy continued at the Millennium Hotels and Resorts in Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt, as sales manager. Welcoming him to his role, Bert Fol, regional director of Africa, Radisson Hotel Group says, “Yehia’s appointment is a key milestone in the successful journey of the Radisson Hotel in Lagos Ikeja. His energy, enthusiasm and quality experience are great assets to have onboard and we expect that he will do a great job in developing a fantastic team focused on positive engagements with the local community and promoting quality of service and facility to all guests.” Read also: Yusuf Sesay: West Africa’s trailblazer at Radisson Hotel Group Progressing in senior management and leadership roles, Yehia was regional assistant director of sales at Domina Coral Bay and director of sales and marketing at the Movenpick Hotels & Resorts in Egypt. Best known for his analytical skills, he progressed to the role of group director of business development at the DoubleTree by Hilton Hotel in Tanzania in 2015 and was general manager of the hotel in Stone Town Zanzibar, in 2017. Commenting on his appointment, Yehia states, “I am thrilled to be joining the fantastic team at Radisson Hotel Lagos Ikeja. Nigeria’s hospitality sector is one of the most vibrant in Africa and I have long admired the established reputation of Radisson Hotel Group. I am committed in my role to upholding the service culture of the brand while striving to further enhance guests’ experience at our hotel and improve on overall brand value into the future”. Yehia holds a bachelor’s degree in Hotel Management including certifications in Leadership from Harvard Business School; Marketing & Leadership, Hotel Management and Owner Relations from Cornell University in New York.