 Kgalagari lamb meat dish has the potential to market Khawa and Botswana as a destination for quality and exquisite meat delicacy alongside the region’s entertainment festivities, Slumber Tsogwane, acting president, said. Launching the Kgalagari lamb meat dish during the Khawa Dune Challenge on Friday, he said the meat, which was unique to the Kgalagadi region, was part of the efforts by Mokgweetsi Masisi, President of Botswana, to promote value chain addition to products produced locally than exporting them in raw form. He said the variety of dishes of lamb meat was an addition to the Khawa Dune Challenge activities, which should push the growth of the meat industry. Tsogwane further noted that the anticipated revenue from the lamb meat should encourage more Batswana to partake in livestock farming, which would address the country’s food sustainability and security efforts. He said Botswana beef had won international fame for quality, and Kgalagadi lamb meat was another revelation. He said through intellectual property rights, the government would assist in protecting the originality of the meat taste and the product concept. Read also: Outspan vaccinates cattle herds against foot, mouth disease “Research is ongoing to inform and arm farmers with knowledge of the kind of the product they are selling and such will include even the vegetation influence on the taste. Such information will help farmers market their beef efficiently to the local and international markets,” he said. Speaking further, Tsogwane said that the white Karakul sheep had proved to be a profitable and quality breed that farmers could benefit from, hence government efforts to assist small stock farmers around Lobu farm on the quality aspects needed by the market. He said a concept of a cattle post was developed around Lobu to assist upcoming small-stock farmers with skills and was open to farmers in general to benchmark and gain knowledge on how to develop their stock. On her part, Philda Kereng, Minister of Environment and Tourism, said the launch signalled an array of tourism activities, which locals could tap into to create wealth for themselves and add value to the diversification drive. She said the addition of the Kgalagari lamb meat dish to the Khawa Dune Challenge would increase the diversity of the event and attract international tourists.