 It’s a moment of pride for Nollywood as the industry unveils its first-ever full-length animation film. After years of producing live-action movies, Nollywood has now added animation to its repertoire, signaling a new era of innovation and creativity. Utricle studios over the weekend had its exclusive screening of one of Nigeria’s first feature-length animated movies, ‘Gammy and the Living Things’, with Yemi Osinbajo, Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the special guest of honour at the event. The movie which was screened at FilmHouse Cinemas, Landmark Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos showcases the industry’s creative potential and technological advancements, is poised to take Nollywood to new heights and showcase Nigeria’s cultural prowess to the world. Read also: CBN assures of amicable resolution of banks, telcos dispute Osinbajo in a special address at the event reiterated the potential opportunities in the creative sector with a special focus on the animation industry; which has a huge potential for exportable content, leading to job creation for thousands of young Nigerians. The movie “Gammy and The Living Things” is a family-friendly animation musical that celebrates the endless possibilities of Africa. This unique project combines Nigerian storytelling, music, and art with a Pan-African cast and a global perspective. With its accompanying 13-track album, expertly produced and bound to be a streaming success, it features a fascinating hybrid of song remakes by popular Nigerian music superstars from the 80s and 90s, as well as unforgettable original tracks. Osinbajo also celebrated the team at Utricle studios and Uphorik Sounds for their exemplary work at creating a first class movie production of this standard, with a team of creatives all from within Nigeria. The Gammy project assembled a cast of the best performers in Nigeria and Africa to deliver world-class voice acting to bring the ensemble of over 40 animated characters to life. The talented cast includes Jude “MI” Abaga, Joke Silva, Bimbo Akintola, Segun Arinze, Pete Edochie, John Dumelo (Ghana), Ruby Gyang, Bovi, late Sadiq Daba and Avril (Kenya) amongst others. The album for the movie titled, ‘Rites of Passage’, features an impressive selection of music talents, including TuFace, M.I Abaga, Made Kuti, Timi Dakolo, Waje, Ric Hassani, Praiz, Johnny Drille, and Goya Menor; creating classic remakes from music veterans like Blakky, Ras Kimono, Majek Fashek, The Mandators, and William Onyeabor, adding to the album’s unique and captivating sound. The movie promises to capture the hearts of audiences, both young and old, and establish Nollywood as a force to be reckoned with in the global animation industry.