 Buyout group will pay $970mn in cash but predominantly use stock to complete the acquisition TPG has agreed to buy debt and real estate manager Angelo Gordon for $2.7bn as the US private equity group diversifies into credit-based investments with its first major acquisition since going public last year. The acquisition of New York-based Angelo Gordon, one of the largest investors in private credit markets and a savvy distressed debt player, will be predominantly made in stock. TPG said it will pay $970mn in cash and the remainder in stock by issuing 62.5mn new shares in a deal it forecast would increase its fee-based earnings by as much as 10 per cent next year. In first-quarter results released on Monday, the buyout group generated $99mn in fee-related earnings, generally beating analysts’ forecasts. TPG listed its shares last year as part of a growth push by the $137bn-in-assets group that many expected would help it acquire a credit-based investment manager, broadening its portfolio that is mostly focused on growth-oriented corporate buyouts and its “Rise” platforms focused on sustainability and climate-based investments. Angelo Gordon, which manages $73bn in assets with 650 employees worldwide, has had important roles in steering recent bankruptcies such as Revlon and Envision Healthcare. It also has extensive operations financing real estate. TPG, which went public in January 2022 at a $9bn valuation, slightly higher than its current market capitalisation, hopes to use its bigger size to appeal to the large pools of capital that increasingly prefer to deal with a limited number of investment managers. Read also: The untold story of the world’s most resilient currency TPG co-founder James Coulter said in an interview that Angelo Gordon has an expansive presence in credit markets that would bring the buyout group scale and be welcomed by clients. Josh Baumgarten, co-chief executive of Angelo Gordon, said the firm’s decision to sell came as its investors were looking for “strategic” relationships with a smaller number of firms. “The world is moving towards larger, scaled and fully diversified businesses that can meet what clients are looking for,” he said. The combined company expects to capitalise on new investment opportunities that emerge from rising interest rates and a looming credit crunch that could spark a rise in defaults, said chief executive Jon Winkelried. The transaction comes as private credit managers increasingly replace traditional banks in financing buyouts and even in making large real estate and corporate loans. The deal adds to a wave of consolidation in private capital as asset managers look to bolster their credit investment capabilities. Several large debt groups have been acquired in recent months and another prominent player in the sector, Fortress Investment Group, is expected to be acquired by Mubadala, the Abu Dhabi-based sovereign wealth fund, the Financial Times reported last week. TPG had a partnership with the credit specialist Sixth Street Partners, which the sides terminated in 2020. Shares in TPG rose 2 per cent on Monday.