 Monday’s inauguration of Alex Otti, of the Labour Party (LP) as the 5th civilian Governor of Abia State was greeted with joy by the people of the State, who are desirous of good governance. The people, especially residence of Aba, the State’s commercial hub, have been starved of good governance for 24 years that the State was under the control of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Infrastructure in Aba, which is regarded as the Japan of Africa, due to the activities of shoemakers, tailors, machine tools fabricators and manufacturers were left to rot. The city has no good roads, no basic amenities like portable water, the sanitary condition of the city is nothing to write home about, as the entire stretch is filled with wastes. Touting is the order of the day, as touts, who masquerade as Government officials extort residents, daily. Consequently, the declaration of Otti of the Labour party, as the winner of the 2023 Governorship election in Abia State,. brought joy to the people, who saw him as one that would bring positive change in the State. Prince Maduka, an Aba resident, appealed to Alex Otti to focus on his campaign promises and deliver good governance to the people. According to him, Abians never chose party, they believed in the man, Alex Otti , noting tha his name will always trigger something good in the minds of ndi Aba. He argued that the sorry state of Abia was caused by partisan politics, a situation he wished should be checked within the earliest possible time, to avoid reoccurrence. Mike George, president, Association of Aba Tenants (AAT) advised Otti to stop multiple taxation, touting in Aba to avoid political unrest. This is as he proposed Government/ tenants collaboration in crime fighting, through the establishment of neighbourhood watch to curb crime in Aba. He also urged the State Government to ensure equity in job opportunities, empowerment and other spheres of political dividends for better governance. Obinna Nwagbara, executive director, Youths and Students Advocates for Development (YSAD) a civil society organisation, advised the Otti-led administration in Abia State, to declare emergency on pollution and illegal refuse disposal in the State, especially Aba, the State’s commercial hub. With poor refuse disposal, Aba gutters are clogged up, resulting in thickened sludge breeding mosquitoes and other vectors. From sachets to straws, can to water bottle and the rest, plastic wastes are indiscriminately littered in Aba, including in its major town and landmarks, where such wastes form mountain range. Since Abia, as a State, has no formidable recycle culture, these wastes constitute health hazards to the public. Too, they are non-biodegradable and pollution agent and therefore through long years of decomposition mar the environment. Consequently, Nwagbara, called on the new Abia State Governor, to create a roadmap for a new environmental regime, stressing that environment must form plank of the agenda and policy of the new government. “Though the past administrations may have done their bit and best, the need to spotlight Aba environment is compelling, the more. Market places too are not left out. School Road, Clifford Road, Asa Road and other areas near Aba-based markets have continued to suffer illegal refuse dumping. “The new Government must start with environment, whether it is building infrastructure or recovering the Enyimba city; so it is imperative it has a working document on how to go about restoring Aba and Abia”. ……………………………………………………………… …as Abia LP commends workers for calling off strike Godfrey Ofurum, Aba Meanwhile, the leadership of Labour party, in Abia State, led by Ceekay Igara, has commended Abia State workers for showing solidarity to the new administration in the State, led by Alex Otti, by calling off its 2-weeks strike to press for payment of arrears of salaries owed workers by the outgoing People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Government. The Party in a statement, signed by Njoku Jerry Ajike, its publicity secretary, described the development as
a sign of the great change that is about to happen among Abia State workforce. As the political arm of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) the Abia LP considered the decision to call off the strike by leadership of the TUC and NLC as a great act of patriotism and and an evidence of loyalty and support to the Incoming Labour Party led government of Alex Otti The leadership of the congress arrived at this decision on May 27, 2023 after visiting Otti at his residence, where he reassured the workers of his commitment in improving their welfare without wavering. Therefore it would have resulted to an unjust act to let the strike hamper the activities of the new government of hope that has promised so much and committed to execute their promises to the people of Abia State, especially the workforce. They stated that the Labour Party is the political platform of all categories of workers in Abia State, including artisans and business owners, noting that the leadership felt concerned at whatever might have prompted the workers to go on strike at the first place at such a time that entire Abians had taken it upon themselves to work towards a harmonious transition process between the oppressors of the hardworking people of the State. The Labour Party thanked the people of Abia State for their overwhelming support to the new ruling party in the State.