 While the COVID lockdown brought about failure and downturns for many businesses, innovative companies built great products. The lockdown may have just brought the much-needed change to education in Africa. Toby Ita, Founder of Dyeka app, is an entrepreneur with almost a decade experience in education, and has an undeniable passion to see African children succeed in all aspects. With the goal of cultivating a love for learning in young children. She developed a personalised learning app, Dyeka – a fun learning app for kids aged 3-10 years that provides co-curricular and high-quality curriculum-based learning online. Dyeka kids app was founded in 2021 to simply fill the gaps in education across social strata. An increased adoption of digital learning has led the app to become a dynamic resource for academic and extracurricular learning in Africa. According to Ita, the Dyeka app is not just any educational app, it also democratises high-quality education by providing an environment where each child who is a subscriber has thousands of content in different forms. Read also: Cyberchain to empower Nigerians with blockchain education “Learning in kids can come in a personalised manner – a unique form of learning that caters to the needs of every student. These can be in the form of videos, sounds, images, books, live classes, assessment and group learning.” “We realised that many children can benefit greatly from personalised education, especially in this part of the world and this became one of our core principles at Dyeka,” she said. Aside from improving educational capacity among kids, Dyeka is enriched with co-curricular classes like dance and chess- to provide more rounded learning. The scope of learning covers core subjects and topics on the Nigerian and British curriculum. To further develop learning abilities in kids, parental involvement is also integral as parents register and go through the learning processes with their children. For instance, she said, “A parent whom we spoke to particularly noted that her seven-year-old did not only improve his grades but has an increased bank of general knowledge which sets him apart from his peers.” Nonetheless, the app uses rich content to teach concepts as taught in school in addition to information on living habits and all-around quality education.