 The United Kingdom flew 2,450 people, the vast majority of whom are British citizens and their dependents, out of the war-ravaged Sudan on 30 flights. The final flight departed Port Sudan airport on Wednesday night after an eight-day, multi-route evacuation via the Wadi Saeedna airfield and Port Sudan. This evacuation becomes the longest and largest evacuation of any Western nation. The UK government said that it will deliver £5 million of lifesaving aid for people fleeing the violence in Sudan. As a longstanding and committed donor to Sudan, the British government said that it has contributed more than £250 million in humanitarian aid in the past five years. Read also: Photos: First batch of Nigerians arrive Abuja from war-torn Sudan However, humanitarian organisations face enormous obstacles in delivering support in Sudan, with the eruption of violence leading to aid workers being attacked and killed and humanitarian supplies being looted. Many relief agencies have ceased operations in the country in the wake of the volatile conditions. The UK is working in close coordination with international organisations and partners to push for safe access for humanitarian workers. This will allow aid to flow to those worst affected by the violence. The aid will ensure practical items such as food, shelter, medical care, and clean water for tens of thousands of people reach the most vulnerable. Speaking on this development, Foreign Secretary James Cleverly said, “The package we have announced today will provide food, shelter, medical care, and clean water for tens of thousands of people who have fled the violence in Sudan. “The UK has coordinated the longest and largest evacuation of any Western country and brought 2450 people to safety from Sudan. We remain focused on supporting those who are in desperate need of humanitarian assistance and continue to press for a long-term ceasefire.” Ben Wallace, Defence Secretary, said, “I am truly grateful for the dedication and professionalism of the men and women of our Armed Forces who have evacuated more than 2,000 people from Sudan from over 20 counties and continue to provide medical and humanitarian support from Port Sudan, supported by the Royal Air Force.”