 The Lagos state government has distributed smoking kilns, water pumps, stoves, refrigerators and generators to fish farmers in Eti Osa Local Government Area in the continuation of the Agricultural Value Chains Enterprise Support Programme. Rotimi Fashola, special adviser to the governor on agriculture, said the initiative was part of the comprehensive plan of the government to drive food security by supporting fish farmers boost productivity and impact their livelihoods. “The attainment of food security is a major policy thrust of this administration given its relevance in promoting the health and wellbeing of citizens and the achievement of the state’s government THEMES agenda,” Fashola said.
He stated that the state’s five years Agricultural and Food System roadmap is expected to scale food production in Lagos from the current 20percent to 40 percent by 2025. According to him, the agric ministry is implementing a number of programmes and projects to facilitate the attainment of this vision, create jobs and promote livelihood sustenance for the value chain actors.
Speaking on challenges limiting agric productivity in the state, Fashola said aging farming population is the major hurdle facing farming in Lagos. Read also: West African cashew growers urged to shift focus to quality, processing He added that despite accounting for 60 percent of the total population in the state, most youths are not interested in agriculture as a profession owing to the drudgery in the system. To address this, he said Lagos is partnering with innovative companies to introduce technology in the sector, especially in the upstream. Saheed Bankola, executive chairman, Eti Osa Local Government Area, commended the efforts of Lagos State Agric Ministry for putting up the input support programme and recognizing the importance of supporting farmers in the local government. “This proramme is a clear demonstration of your determination to improve the standard of living of the farming community in Lagos State,” Bankola who was represented by Sulieman Adekonbi said. “We appreciate the resources materials and training that have been made available for this programme. Your vision for the establishment of fishing and farming clusters and food processing within strategic locations in Lagos State is indeed a game-changer for us.”