 Steve Ayorinde, a former commissioner in Lagos state has disclosed that there is a need to develop the film industry from the bottom-up approach to deepen Nollywood as an industry in Nigeria. “The next 30 years has to be a concerted effort of all quarters of the industry – the artistic and technical aspects collaborating with the government and corporate sectors,” Ayorinde said during the recent launch of his book chronicling 30 years of Nollywood’s growth in Nigeria. In a tribute to the landmark achievements and outstanding practitioners in the Nigerian film industry, Ayorinde unveiled the book titled, ‘30: Three Decades of The New Nigerian Cinema – A Bystander’s Verdict’ at the Mike Adenuga Center Ikoyi, Lagos. Presenting the book, Ayorinde reiterated that the story of Nollywood is incomplete without the players within the industry. According to him, the compilation was borne out of years of honing his trade as a cub reporter, editor and columnist, editor-in-chief, member of the jury for film festivals and commissioner. The 183-page book chronicles 30 years of the Nigerian film industry, documenting 30 outstanding films, directors, actors, actresses and fallen heroes who deserve special recognition for their artistic achievements and impact on the growth of the industry. Read also: Nollywood’s Chika Ike ranks among best dressed at Cannes Film Festival in France Kayode Fayemi, former governor of Ekiti state, commended the efforts to record the phases and faces that have defined the second-largest film industry in the world and lauded the invaluable contributions of its stakeholders. “I must commend you for bearing witness to history, and ensuring we do not lose a sense of who we are as Nigerians. I also need to commend all those who have excelled in this industry and are promoting our culture,” Ayorinde stated. Akinwunmi Ambode, former governor of Lagos, congratulated Ayorinde on his efforts to chronicle activities in the Nigerian movie industry. “Steve well done. It takes a lot of strength for you to do this. This means a greater future for this industry.” Olaniwun Oni-Buraimoh, senior lecturer, Lagos State University (LASU) and book reviewer, stated that the book is not just a mere documentation of events in the past, but a contribution to the knowledge of the film industry. “It speaks to a wide range of audiences and must say that it is an important read.”