 Nigeria’s leading premium malt drink, Amstel Malta, reaffirmed its commitment to spotlighting and showcasing the best of the African creative industry with its headline sponsorship of the just concluded 9th edition of the Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards (AMVCA), which was held on May 20, 2023, at Eko Convention Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. The AMVCA was a three-day-long celebration that spotlighted the prominence of African entertainment, fashion, and culture, accompanied by numerous accolades bestowed upon pioneers and visionaries in the creative sector. Amstel Malta created an unparalleled authentic, and meaningful experience for attendees of this year’s edition. The leading premium malt drink created an unforgettable and truly premium experience for attendees, from the captivating Golden Hour, where the guests were treated to an immersive photography journey, adding an extra touch of elegance and allure to the evening, to the exhilarating presence of Miriam Cole and Gideon Oko, the Amstel reporters who added an interactive and engaging feel, amplifying the buzz and capturing the thrilling TV-worthy moments throughout the night. Speaking about the brand’s successful involvement as the headline sponsor of the AMVCA 9, Elohor Olumide-Awe, portfolio manager, non-alcoholic brands, Nigerian Breweries, expressed satisfaction, stating, “We are immensely proud to continue our partnership as headline sponsor of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCA) for the 9th consecutive year. At Amstel Malta, we firmly believe in the power of spotlighting the best of African creatives and celebrating their remarkable achievements. By aligning ourselves with this prestigious platform, we continuously aim to spotlight the dreams and passions of talented creatives,” she said. Read also: Susan Pwajok joins MTV Base Culture Squad “Amstel Malta remains committed to championing excellence, inspiring dreams, and providing a platform where African talent shines brightly. Together with the AMVCA, we will continue to empower African creatives and showcase their brilliance to the world”. Amstel Malta showcased its support for filmmakers and creatives at the AMVCA 9 by sponsoring several distinguished categories. The notable winners included: Kunle Afolayan, who won the Best Overall Film for Anikulapo; Victor Iyke and Kent Edunjobi, who respectively won the Best Indigenous Igbo Movie and Best Soundtrack for their performances in Uhuruchi and Anikulapo. Oluwatoyosi Fowode’s Leaked won the Multichoice Talent Factory Film, while Beauty Tukura took home the Best Dressed award at the event. The AMVCA After Party, an exhilarating culmination of the night’s festivities, transported guests into a world of pulsating music, dazzling glow in the night lights, and performances from dance troupes during the Amstel After Dark. As the crowd danced into the early morning hours, Amstel Malta proved once again its dedication to delivering a truly premium experience that lingers in the memories of all who attended. Moreover, Amstel Malta’s association with AMVCA9 reaffirmed its unwavering support and commitment to spotlighting African creatives in their mission to pursue their passion and ambitions.