 If you desire a room with windows open to the fresh wild, a place where you are very comfortable with Mother Nature without watching your back, and yet treated like a royal, then you have a deal. All you need is a trip to The Royal Senchi Resort. Set in the historic kingdom of Akwamu, West of Akosombo, Ghana, the 84-room and suites resort is a bold undertaking on the west bank of the Volta River, overlooking the eco-island locally called Denkyenyam. You will not ignore its wild tropical feel and pristine offering. Its location is distant from the hectic city life, yet near enough for easy commuting. Built in 2011, the barely new resort offers guests beyond the serenity of Volta Lake. Over 80 rooms and suites were designed to blend with the appealing, balmy environment of the Senchi River and the surrounding rich forestry. Its 74 standard rooms aptly tagged ‘Riverview’ offer more than a panoramic view of the Senchi River. They are also sizeable, with a private patio area and even a view from the bathtub. The colours, the architectural curves, as well as, the shapes of the buildings, blend to the ‘natural look’ and feel of the entire property. Guests who want something different can ask for an upstairs room for the airy high ceilings. The nine suites are large too, and the Presidential Suite has a private plunge pool. Those not willing to splash out quite so much can splash around the lovely pool that also overlooks the river. To optimise your stay at the resort, you need to experience the pleasure of the opulent Picahartes Suite. Named after a rare rockfowl or bald crow that is found in the rainforest of West and Central Africa, the Picahartes Suite will blow your mind. The suite is made up of two floors to support all comfort and luxury with a wooden staircase that leads you from one floor to the other. There is a private outdoor swimming pool and a double-door entrance and a spacious balcony. With a wide and spectacular view of the Volta River, the Picathartes suite offers luxury you cannot imagine. The suite is also furnished with a private kitchen. Read also: Radisson Hotel Group unveils “Skip to Rewards” campaign A day at the resort without visiting the restaurant to indulge your culinary tastes, and Nsu Bar for rare and local wine menu is unmemorable. The bar offers both residents and non-residents alike the platform to network a great deal. For the adventurous guests who want something beyond the comfort of the room, there are canoes and launches for playing on the crocodile-free river. There are plans for a nine-hole golf course, a football pitch, a basketball court and a kids’ play area, among other attractions. Yet, it boasts of the usual amenities: spa, shop, business centre, restaurant, lounge bar, and conference suite with two well-equipped breakout rooms and meeting areas. The ballroom hosts up to 200 guests, while an attractive outdoor event space hosts more. Of course, with all its quality offerings, Gerald Schraven, general manager, Royal Senchi Resort, was excited to introduce the first four-star resort in the Eastern Region of Ghana to West African delegates at this year’s Accra Weizo, a two-day travel expo. He commended the delegates, especially Nigerians amongst them, who he said are the second highest source market of the resort, after the United States of America. The delegates were earlier at the resort on a familiarization trip sponsored by the organisers of the travel expo. On the reasons a guest needs a night’s rest in the hotel, Emmanuel Mensah, director of sales and marketing of the resort, noted: “Our luxurious Riverview rooms are well-equipped with modern facilities, lovely décor and a view. These rooms are designed to inspire. Each room has a spectacular view of the Volta River that makes you feel like you are actually living on the Volta. Again, guests enjoy the freshness of the environment while they sit at their balcony or terrace.” For him, the concept of the hotel is to offer a destination that fuses into the relaxed nature of the environment while providing hospitality standards that befit a four-star establishment. These, according to him, are the features that have made the resort in recent times, a hub for Nigerian occasions in Ghana – from weddings, honeymoons, and birthday parties, among others. Having generously taken care of his guests, Mensah earnestly asked the delegates from across West Africa to repeat visits for more business.