 Following the success of an eight-day lineup of events that marked the 8th edition of the Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards (AMVCA), MultiChoice Nigeria, the organiser of the awards, is set for an exciting three-day offering this year, which is the 9th edition of the highly coveted creative industry award in Africa. According to MultiChoice Nigeria, this year’s edition of the AMVCAs is focused on raising the bar when it comes to recognizing and rewarding talents in the various aspects of the African film and television industry. “Last year, we had an eight-day lineup of activities leading to the Award Night. This year will be no different. We have decided to sustain the momentum by bringing back all the activities. The only difference is that they will all take place within three days,” Busola Tejumola, executive head of Content and West Africa Channels, MultiChoice Nigeria, explained the change in the number of days for the show this year. Meanwhile, the three-day show, which is jam-packed with an exciting lineup of events, kicked off yesterday May 18, 2023, with the MTF Day, Opening Night and Cultural Day; a celebration of African culture and diversity. The open night event would be followed by the ‘Runway Show and Nominee Gala’ on May 19, 2023; which is a nod to the key role fashion, style and design play in the film and television industry and a means to give young designers a boost in their careers. In this year’s runway competition, the winners stand the chance to walk away with cash prizes and the opportunity to work with the brand team of Pepsi, one of the brands they are set to create innovative designs for on the runway. The second day will also host the AMVCA 2023 Digital Content Creators’ Day. Now in its second edition, this year’s Digital Content Creators’ Day will feature some of the biggest names in the creative and entertainment industry leading conversations around making the best of digital content creation. The panel will include; Iyabo Ojo and Bisola Aiyeola, who are award-winning actresses; Gbemi Olateru Olagbegi and Tolu “Toolz” Oniru, media personalities; Steve Babaeko, CEO, of X3M Ideas, as a keynote speaker and Collete Otusheso, CEO, Accelerate TV. Popular content creator, Enioluwa Adeoluwa will host the event alongside actress Bisola Aiyeola. The event will explore the power of content creation, and how creators can maximise their creativity and monetise it. It will also include discussions about maintaining longevity and relevance in the industry. Speaking about the Digital Content Creators’ Day, Tejumola said, “We are excited to be hosting the second edition of the Digital Content Creators’ Day. We kicked off this event last year as part of activities for the AMVCAs to support and further underscore our commitment to spotlighting content creators. We are certain this year’s edition will further inspire them and equip them with the knowledge and inspiration they need to keep creating amazing content.” The three-day event lineup will climax on May 20, 2023, with the glamorous awards night amid a live broadcast across all Africa Magic Channels on DStv and GOtv, starting from 4 pm WAT. The 9th AMVCA will see the return of the ever-popular ‘Best Online Social Content Creator’ category and the introduction of two new categories: ‘Best Original Telenovela’ and ‘Best Unscripted Original’. Read also: Children artists on the rise As a buildup to the show, Zozibini Tunzi, a South African model and Miss Universe 2019 has been announced as the co-host of the 9th edition of the awards alongside IK Osakioduwa, the foremost Nigerian media personality. IK’s return for the 9th time to host the prestigious awards is a testament to his dexterity and excellence on this stage. Zozibini Tunzi, who is a model, actor, social media personality, and beauty pageant titleholder, had previously been Miss South Africa 2019 and also won Miss Universe 2019 with resounding global approval. She made her acting debut with “The Woman King” in 2022. Zozobini is also a radio and television host and has hosted several prolific events, including Miss South Africa. Media personalities, Toke Makinwa, Uti Nwachukwu, Sika Osei and VJ Adama will also be hosting on the red carpet in their signature styles of fun and style. They will be speaking to guests, giving viewers a sneak peek into all the glitz and glam of the red carpet. Speaking on the choice of the hosts, the executive head of Content and West Africa Channels, MultiChoice Nigeria said, “We are excited to have IK and Zozibini as the hosts of the 9th edition of the AMVCA. They are both professionals in their craft, and we trust they will bring in the super energy and professionalism and keep the continent entertained as we celebrate our African stars.” On his return to the glamorous AMVCA stage, IK said, “It feels good to be hosting the AMVCAs once again; I have been privileged to be on this stage for the past nine years, and I do not take that for granted. I am excited about the nominees this year and cannot wait to see them all shine.” Speaking on her AMVCA co-host debut, Zozibini said, “It is an incredible honour to be hosting Africa’s biggest night in entertainment and film with such a talented co-host. This is my first trip to Nigeria, and it could not have gone any better other than being privileged to host the biggest film award in the continent while celebrating our African stars.” The much-anticipated ninth edition of the AMVCA is brought to you by Africa Magic in association with MultiChoice and is proudly sponsored by Amstel Malta and Zagg energy drink.