 Ayodele Toyosi, founder and chief executive of Agrorite has reiterated its organisation’s commitment to boosting farmers’ productivity and impacting their livelihoods. The founder made this known during an event organised recently to mark the organisation’s 4th anniversary. According to him, Agrorite is a digital agriculture platform that is on a mission to improve the livelihood of smallholder farmers in Africa through the provision of innovative solutions to address the challenges of post-harvest waste and market access. “By leveraging technology, we have achieved the production of 200,000MT of agricultural commodities both of crops and animals and the trading of over 300,000MT of agricultural commodities across five continents of the world,” he said. “As players in the biggest employment sector in Africa, Agrorite has onboarded and engaged over 300,000 smallholder farmers across different states of Nigeria,” Ayodele added. According to Ayodele, the agribusiness company provides technological solutions to warehousing and the local and international fair trade of agricultural commodities. Read also: Advocating practical agriculture in schools ‘’We began operations in Kano, Kaduna, and other Northeast States in Nigeria, as well as Ghana and Guinea Bissau. The company received an award for 100 most promising startups by Startup Istanbul, Turkey,’’ he said. Also, Kanayo Felix Nwanze, the company’s board chairman, said: “Ending hunger calls for a transformation that must begin with the rural sector – because, as shown by FAO, IFAD, AfDB, the World Bank and others, this is the environment, this is the population of farmers, ﬁshers, herders, and pastoralists that is hit the hardest with hunger, with poverty, with climate change, and with conﬂict – ironically, the population and the environment that feeds most of Africa. And they are mostly women.” Highlighting the achievements recorded by the company since its inception, Toyosi revealed: “Agrorite was selected as one of the 10 tech-enabled startups in Africa by AIRBUS and was also recognized as Africa’s Most Innovative Digital Agricultural Platform Brand of the Year by Africa’s Fintech Innovators Merit Award in August among many other achievements. According to Toyosi, the company also officially launched in Guinea and received the award for Africa’s Most Impactful Agricultural Brand at the Global Quality Excellence and African Brand award.