 Seamfix Limited, an enrolment and identity verification firm has partnered with Mvine, an orchestration service provider to deliver a new range of digital identity services interoperable across international borders. This aims to deliver fast enrolment of new customers and identity verification (IDV) checks of Africans in the UK. According to the partners, the move reinforces the go-to-market strategy of both Seamfix and Mvine to scale up their respective commercial activities, starting with the UK B2B market. Frank Joshi, director at Mvine Limited, speaking on the partnership said, “Mvine partnering with Seamfix plays to one another’s strengths, expertise, and success in our respective countries. This new proposition provides Mvine’s business customers a genuinely unique method for delivering enrolment and identity verification checks according to their needs and budget.” Read also: Airtel Africa’s new brand campaign targets youths creativity Through this partnership, Mvine will integrate its digital identity hub into Seamfix’s Credential Suite, Enrolment Suite, and Verification Suite. Also, enrolment and identity verification checks powered by Seamfix for Africa will be passed through Mvine’s identity hub which delivers a non-repudiable and tamper-proof certificate of verification. Chimezie Emewulu, group CEO at Seamfix Ltd, said, “International interoperability is assured thanks to Seamfix technology deployed in conjunction with Mvine technology. Customers of the service will be able to enjoy all the advantages of enrolment and identity verification checks processed digitally, even when the data subject is from another country.” The partnership according to the partners also coincides with the launch to the UK B2B market of ‘MvineID’, a new service delivering fast and affordable identity verification checks to UK businesses according to their needs and budget. When Mvine’s business customers require enrolment and identity verification checks for their end users with African nationality, they can opt to select Seamfix to verify their identities.