 Praia, the capital city of West Africa’s Archipelago island of Cabo Verde, is positioning itself to become the country’s heritage and cultural haven. The city, which has a rich tapestry of Cabo Verde’s history and was a major trading port during the trans-Atlantic slave trade, is planning to create a niche for itself as the must-visit island of Cabo Verde. Even with its endowed beachfront/resources the municipality of Praia under Santiago is working assiduously to attract the interest of cultural and heritage towers. The city boasts of the many places that showcase the Morabeza (warmth) of the sultry island. The municipality less than a fortnight ago played host to the Atlantic music expo and the famous Kriol Jazz Festival. The latter, which returned after three years as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, attracted tourists, journalists, and music enthusiasts from all over the world to Praia. The three days were exciting for the music fiesta and a showcase of Cabo Verde’s amazing musical talent. Speaking at the event, Francisco Carvalho, president of the municipality of Praia, said his office wants to position Praia as the cultural heartbeat of Africa with music and heritage as its main draws. “We want to put Praia on the map of tourism. We want people to know Praia and what we have here; our strong cultural programs all year round. “We have different events related to music, gastronomy and we want people to know about this and to come here to visit because we really like to receive people here and to show what we have in the field of culture,” Francisco Carvalho assured. Read also: Faces behind the Kindred Spirits exhibition He further listed other notable events that will excite visitors to include; Festival of Gaboa in May, there another festival in April and something in December also. “We have something in December. The name in Portuguese is Nolan Knight White Knight because people go to the street on white dresses and we have music gastronomy. “Right now we are creating something new and with the support of stakeholders and everyone we can position Praia as the center of diversity and a melting pot in Africa. “We also have heritage. This is something that we really want to do here in Praia,” the president of the municipality of Praia said. He further added that the municipality sees tourism as the driving force for its economic development. History of Praia Praia is the capital city of Cape Verde, which is off the coast of West Africa. The city is on the southern coast of Santiago Island. The old town center, called the “Plateau” by locals, is on a raised area overlooking the Atlantic Ocean. Around the bay, beaches include; Quebra Canela and Prainha, both near the Praínha neighborhood. Complementing the enthralling natural environment, shops and restaurants cluster in the Achada de Santo António quarter.